Boss man, I reviewed the full 869-line upload. You have the foundation of a real company, but the material currently combines three separate systems into one idea:

The public NerdCommand company website.
The NerdCommand.ai customer product.
The internal operating system that runs the company.

My CIO decision is to separate those responsibilities while connecting them through a shared operating architecture.

The NerdCommand company structure
Property	Job
NerdCommand.com	The corporate website and B2B sales engine. It explains what you build, establishes trust, captures leads, and sells audits, implementations, and custom software.
NerdCommand.ai	The customer-facing AI product. It handles product accounts, workspaces, tools, upgrades, and customer usage.
NerdCommand OS	The internal company operating system. It runs sales, projects, clients, product development, marketing, approvals, knowledge, automation, and executive reporting.

A future domain such as command.nerdcommand.com or os.nerdcommand.com would be appropriate for the operating system.

The operating model is:

NerdCommand.com wins and qualifies the work; NerdCommand.ai delivers the product experience; NerdCommand OS controls how the company sells, builds, serves, learns, and scales.

My assessment of the current plan
What is strong

The “under command” concept is your best strategic idea. It gives you a language that can connect the website, software, services, internal operations, and customer experience.

The AI Command Audit is also a strong first offer. Small-business owners frequently know they need better systems but do not know which workflow to fix first. An audit gives you a structured way to diagnose the operation before proposing software.

The combination of software, implementation, and ongoing support is sensible. NerdCommand should not merely hand a customer an AI tool and hope they configure it correctly. Your company can earn revenue from:

Command Audits and workflow planning.
AI and software implementation.
Recurring managed support.
NerdCommand.ai subscriptions.
Larger custom software projects.
What needs to change
1. Focus the primary customer

The uploaded plan gives equal attention to creators, agencies, med spas, real estate teams, consultants, home-service companies, and general small businesses. That is too broad for the main company website.

The initial NerdCommand.com audience should be:

Service businesses and agencies that receive inbound leads, use several disconnected tools, and lose money because follow-up and delivery are inconsistent.

Creators can remain an important NerdCommand.ai audience, but they should not occupy a major part of the .com homepage.

2. Simplify the offer ladder

Do not show visitors six unrelated services. Use one progression:

Command Audit — diagnose the operation.
Command Map — document the recommended system.
Command Implementation — build and connect it.
Managed Command Operations — monitor and improve it.
Custom Software — create deeper applications when needed.

NerdCommand.ai supports this progression but does not have to be the answer for every engagement.

3. Treat the proposed prices as hypotheses

The uploaded pricing is useful for internal planning, but it is not validated yet. Before publishing fixed packages, you need to measure:

Actual implementation effort.
Integration complexity.
Customer support burden.
AI and infrastructure costs.
Customization requests.
Gross margin.
What customers are genuinely willing to pay.

Use “starting at” pricing initially, or quote projects after the Command Audit.

4. Do not create one giant application

“Run the whole company” should mean one coordinated command surface—not rebuilding accounting, email, payments, customer support, identity, and every other specialized tool inside one codebase.

NerdCommand OS should become the company’s control plane:

It knows what is happening.
It assigns ownership.
It tracks the next action.
It requests approvals.
It coordinates external systems.
It records outcomes.
It generates executive intelligence.

Accounting software can remain the accounting system of record. Payment platforms can remain the payment system of record. NerdCommand OS connects them and gives leadership one operational picture.

The central NerdCommand OS concept

The system should be built around a business object called a Command.

A Command is more complete than a normal task. It contains:

The required outcome.
The responsible owner.
The related client, opportunity, project, or metric.
Current status.
Priority and due date.
The next action.
Whether AI may assist or execute.
Whether human approval is required.
Supporting documents and communications.
Execution history.
Final outcome, cost, and evidence.

For example:

Command: Prepare a proposal for Acme Home Services
Owner: Sales operator
Status: Awaiting approval
AI action: Draft proposal from audit notes
Human action: Review pricing and approve delivery
Related records: Contact, company, audit, opportunity
Outcome: Proposal sent and tracked

AI agents should propose Commands, prepare work, categorize information, and execute low-risk actions. People should remain visibly accountable for sensitive actions.

NerdCommand OS interface

The primary navigation should include:

Overview
Revenue
Clients
Delivery
Product
Marketing
Finance
Knowledge
Automations
Administration

The top bar should provide universal search, a Command palette, alerts, approvals, workspace switching, and a prominent Create Command action.

Executive Overview

The opening screen should answer five questions immediately:

What requires attention now?
What is at risk?
What is producing or blocking revenue?
What approvals are waiting?
What changed since the last executive review?

The dashboard should include:

Attention and approval queue.
Qualified sales pipeline.
Delivery health.
Customer health.
Product and automation incidents.
Collections and cash indicators.
Important recent decisions.
A daily AI-generated Command Brief based on verified system records.
The first workflow to build

Do not attempt to build every department simultaneously. The first complete NerdCommand OS workflow should be:

Website visitor → Command Audit → opportunity → proposal → contract → client onboarding → implementation project → billing → support → renewal

More specifically:

A visitor submits a Command Audit request on NerdCommand.com.
The OS creates or matches the contact and company.
The lead source and consent information are recorded.
AI summarizes the request and suggests qualification.
A human accepts, rejects, or redirects the lead.
The system prepares the Command Audit.
Audit notes produce a draft Command Map and proposal.
A human approves all customer-facing material.
A signed engagement creates the client workspace and project.
The correct implementation template creates the required Commands.
Billing and customer-success records are connected.
Leadership sees revenue, cost, delivery progress, risk, and customer health.

This one workflow would run a major portion of NerdCommand while also becoming the best demonstration you can show potential customers.

Recommended technical direction

Deckbreig should initially become the foundation of a modular monolith, assuming the repository is technically suitable.

That means one deployable backend organized into clean modules rather than beginning with a complicated network of microservices.

The initial platform should contain:

A web application shell.
A controlled API layer.
A relational operational database.
Secure file storage.
A job queue and durable workflow runner.
An AI gateway.
Integration adapters.
Role-based access control.
Approval workflows.
Append-only audit records.
Logs, metrics, alerts, and backups.

The AI gateway should control:

Which models are allowed.
Which model handles each kind of task.
Prompt versions.
Sensitive-data redaction.
Customer and workspace usage.
AI cost.
Retries and fallback behavior.
Evaluation results.
Human approvals.
Agent permissions.

External integrations should be isolated behind adapters. The UI should not directly call payment, email, accounting, CRM, or model providers throughout the codebase.

How Deckbreig should be converted

Do not immediately rename Deckbreig, change every screen, and begin adding features.

The correct migration sequence is:

1. Make it run cleanly

Verify that another developer can start the application using documented instructions and a clean environment.

2. Inventory the architecture

Identify:

Frontend and backend frameworks.
Authentication.
Database and migrations.
APIs.
Background jobs.
Existing integrations.
File storage.
Deployment configuration.
Testing.
Monitoring.
Current user and permission structure.
3. Classify every major component

Each part should be marked:

Keep as-is.
Refactor behind an interface.
Convert into a NerdCommand OS module.
Replace.
Archive.
4. Introduce the operating-system foundation

The earliest platform additions should be:

Organizations and workspaces.
Users, memberships, roles, and permissions.
Commands.
Approvals.
Audit records.
Integration connections.
Workflow runs.
AI identities and policies.
Operational dashboards.
5. Apply the new name and design system

The NerdCommand branding should be applied after the architecture and data boundaries are sound. A cosmetic rename before the technical review could hide serious structural problems.

NerdCommand.com website direction

The HTML in the uploaded material is a useful wireframe, but it is not production-ready.

The current code has several concrete limitations:

The audit form uses action="#", so it does not actually create a lead.
There is no secure server-side form processing.
There is no spam prevention.
There are no clear loading, confirmation, or failure states.
There is no CRM or NerdCommand OS integration.
The CSS is an embedded prototype rather than a maintainable design system.
There are no real case studies, screenshots, testimonials, or proof.
There is no complete analytics and attribution system.
Privacy, terms, security, accessibility, and data-handling pages are missing.
The creator product receives too much attention for a B2B company homepage.
The website does not yet explain why NerdCommand is different from a generic automation agency or chatbot builder.
Recommended navigation
Solutions
NerdCommand OS
Services
Work
Company
Resources
Book a Command Audit
Login

The Login link can route users to NerdCommand.ai or the appropriate customer portal.

Recommended homepage message
Headline

Build smarter systems. Run your business under command.

Supporting statement

NerdCommand designs and deploys AI-powered software, workflows, and command centers that turn scattered business operations into controlled, measurable systems.

Primary call to action

Request a Command Audit

Secondary call to action

Explore What We Build

Recommended homepage sections
Hero and primary conversion.
Real credibility or proof.
The operational problems NerdCommand solves.
What NerdCommand builds.
NerdCommand OS interface demonstration.
The Command Audit and implementation process.
Solutions organized by business outcome.
Case studies and measured results.
Trust, approvals, security, and human control.
Final Command Audit call to action.
Visual direction

The website should feel like an executive mission-control system, not a generic neon AI site and not a Hollywood hacker screen.

Use:

A dark graphite foundation with selected light sections.
One energetic command accent color.
Strong grids and generous spacing.
Precise status indicators.
Real system diagrams and application panels.
Geometric headline typography with highly readable interface text.
Restrained animation showing workflow movement or status changes.
A culturally confident voice without making the interface visually chaotic.

Your African American creator and innovator focus should remain part of the company story and point of view. On the B2B homepage, the customer’s operational outcome should come first; the deeper cultural mission can be expressed strongly through the Company page, founder story, editorial choices, imagery, and community work.

CIO priorities

The order of operations should be:

Approve the three-property company architecture.
Establish the primary target customer and offer ladder.
Audit the Deckbreig repository.
Establish security, tenancy, permissions, Commands, approvals, and audit history.
Build the internal lead-to-delivery workflow.
Connect the real NerdCommand.com audit form.
Redesign the public website around B2B conversion.
Run NerdCommand through its own OS.
Capture real results and case-study evidence.
Convert repeatable internal modules into customer-facing offerings.

I created a detailed blueprint containing the complete product definition, technical architecture, data model, AI governance structure, website map, Deckbreig migration gates, company metrics, and release criteria:

Download the NerdCommand CIO Blueprint v1

When the repository is added, include the repo URL or archive, target branch, README, database migrations, test instructions, deployment configuration, screenshots, and a sanitized .env.example with no real passwords, keys, customer information, or production secrets.

A business operation system is a set of processes, tools, and technologies used to manage and run the day-to-day activities of an organization. It helps ensure that work gets done efficiently, resources are allocated appropriately, and products or services are delivered as expected.

Key components of a business operation system:

Processes & Procedures: Standardized workflows for tasks (e.g., processing orders, managing inventory).
Technology & Software: Tools that automate or support operations (e.g., Enterprise Resource Planning [ERP] systems, scheduling software).
People: Roles and teams responsible for carrying out business functions.
Policies: Rules and guidelines that support consistent operations.
Examples of business operation systems include:

ERP systems: Integrate finance, HR, manufacturing, and supply chain.
Customer Relationship Management (CRM): Manage customer interactions and sales.
Point of Sale (POS) systems: Handle retail transactions and inventory.
Purpose:
Business operation systems help organizations optimize productivity, maintain quality, ensure compliance, and support growth by managing critical business functions in an organized and efficient manner.

If you need further details or examples specific to your organization or VA context, let me know!
Thought for 1m 32s

Yes—this is the correct foundation for NerdCommand OS.

The key correction is that NerdCommand OS is not merely an application. It is the complete system NerdCommand uses to operate the company. Deckbreig becomes the digital control layer that supports and enforces that system.

Official NerdCommand OS definition

NerdCommand OS is an AI-enabled business operating system that connects people, processes, policies, data, and technology into one command structure. It helps an organization plan work, assign accountability, execute repeatable processes, approve exceptions, measure performance, and continuously improve operations.

For public-facing language, I recommend “Business Operating System” rather than “Business Operation System.” The product can still be branded simply as NerdCommand OS.

A strong product promise is:

Every priority has an owner. Every process has a standard. Every action has a status. Every exception has an approval path. Every result is measured.

The five parts of NerdCommand OS
Operating layer	What NerdCommand OS must manage
People	Organizational structure, departments, roles, responsibilities, authority, skills, workloads, and accountability.
Processes	Standard operating procedures, recurring workflows, projects, checklists, service-delivery templates, and process improvements.
Policies	Approval rules, spending limits, quality standards, security requirements, customer-data rules, escalation paths, and company guidelines.
Technology	NerdCommand software, AI agents, automations, integrations, notifications, external applications, and infrastructure.
Performance & Data	Objectives, key results, operational metrics, financial indicators, customer outcomes, audit evidence, and executive reporting.

The user interface should not just manage tasks. It should connect all five layers.

For example, when a proposal is created, the system should know:

Which person owns it.
Which sales process it belongs to.
Which pricing and approval policies apply.
Which software and AI tools may be used.
Which outcome and metrics must be recorded.
How the operating system works

The core NerdCommand operating loop should be:

Set Direction
      ↓
Define the Process
      ↓
Assign Accountable Roles
      ↓
Create and Execute Commands
      ↓
Review or Approve Exceptions
      ↓
Capture Evidence and Outcomes
      ↓
Measure Performance
      ↓
Improve the Process

This loop should operate across sales, customer service, product development, finance, marketing, administration, and leadership.

A practical example: lead to customer
Component	Example
People	Sales owner, proposal approver, delivery lead, finance owner.
Process	Capture lead → qualify → audit → propose → contract → onboard → deliver → invoice.
Policy	Discounts above 10% require approval; AI cannot send proposals without human review.
Technology	Website form, CRM, AI proposal assistant, e-signature, payment system, project workspace.
Performance	Response time, qualification rate, close rate, project margin, payment time, customer satisfaction.

NerdCommand OS brings those pieces together instead of leaving them scattered across documents and disconnected applications.

The role of Deckbreig

Deckbreig should not simply be renamed and presented as the complete company operating system. It should become the underlying engine or foundation.

A possible product architecture is:

NerdCommand OS
│
├── Command Center
│   └── Main web application and dashboards
│
├── Deckbreig Command Engine
│   └── Workflows, Commands, automations and recurring operations
│
├── Command Intelligence
│   └── AI assistants, summaries, recommendations and agents
│
├── Command Knowledge
│   └── SOPs, policies, decisions, documents and company memory
│
├── Command Graph
│   └── Relationships among people, clients, processes, projects and results
│
└── Command Connect
    └── Integrations with external business applications

This lets you preserve Deckbreig as an important piece of intellectual property while making NerdCommand OS the primary company and product brand.

Its exact role will depend on what is already in the repository. During the repository review, every major component should be classified as:

Reusable without major changes.
Reusable after refactoring.
Appropriate for a NerdCommand OS module.
Better replaced.
No longer needed.
The central object: a Command

A normal task is not enough to run an organization. NerdCommand OS should use a richer object called a Command.

A Command should include:

The required outcome.
Accountable owner.
Supporting participants.
Related department.
Related objective or metric.
Related client, opportunity, project, product, or expense.
Governing process.
Applicable policies.
Priority and due date.
Current status and next action.
Required approvals.
AI permissions.
Evidence and attachments.
Activity and audit history.
Cost, time, and final result.

Commands may be created by a person, workflow, integration, recurring schedule, or authorized AI agent. However, a human role should remain accountable for important business outcomes.

Core information structure

The system’s business hierarchy should look like this:

Organization
├── Mission and Strategy
├── Objectives and Metrics
├── Departments
│   ├── Roles
│   ├── People
│   └── Responsibilities
├── Policies
├── Processes
│   ├── SOPs
│   ├── Workflow Templates
│   └── Quality Gates
├── Commands
│   ├── Tasks
│   ├── Approvals
│   ├── Evidence
│   └── Outcomes
├── Customers and Vendors
├── Products and Services
├── Projects and Engagements
└── Decisions and Knowledge

This structure is more valuable than starting with separate disconnected CRM, project-management, and knowledge-base screens.

Main NerdCommand OS workspaces
Executive Command Center

This is the company-level view. It should show:

Objectives and company scorecard.
Revenue and qualified pipeline.
Delivery status and project risk.
Customer health.
Cash, expenses, invoices, and collections.
Product and infrastructure incidents.
Pending executive approvals.
Important changes and decisions.
An AI-generated daily Command Brief supported by real system data.
My Command Center

Every employee or contractor receives a personalized workspace showing:

Commands they own.
Work due today and this week.
Approvals waiting on them.
Risks and blocked work.
Relevant metrics.
Recent messages and decisions.
Suggested next actions.
Process Center

This is where NerdCommand defines how the company operates:

Process maps.
SOPs.
Workflow templates.
Recurring routines.
Checklists.
Process owners.
Version history.
Performance measurements.
Improvement requests.
Policy and Approval Center

This area should contain:

Company policies.
Approval thresholds.
Authority matrix.
Security requirements.
AI permissions.
Spending and pricing limits.
Exceptions.
Policy acknowledgments.
Complete approval history.
Revenue and Client Operations

This should cover the connected customer lifecycle:

Leads and contacts.
Companies and opportunities.
Command Audits.
Proposals and contracts.
Customer onboarding.
Implementation projects.
Customer support.
Renewals and expansions.
Customer health and outcomes.
Knowledge and Decisions

This should become NerdCommand’s organizational memory:

SOPs and operating manuals.
Meeting decisions.
Product specifications.
Customer knowledge.
Technical documentation.
Templates.
Research.
Lessons learned.
Search and AI-assisted retrieval.
ERP, CRM, accounting, and other applications

NerdCommand OS does not need to replace every specialized application.

An ERP manages resources and financial or supply-chain records. A CRM manages sales and customer records. Accounting software manages the financial ledger. A communication platform manages messages.

NerdCommand OS should sit above and across those systems as the coordination, accountability, governance, and intelligence layer.

                    NerdCommand OS
       Coordination • Policy • AI • Accountability
                           │
       ┌───────────────────┼───────────────────┐
       │                   │                   │
      CRM              Accounting         Support
       │                   │                   │
   Customers            Finance            Tickets
       │                   │                   │
       └───────────────────┼───────────────────┘
                           │
               Unified Operational Picture

The outside tools remain systems of record where appropriate. NerdCommand OS knows what must happen across them and whether it was completed correctly.

Minimum viable NerdCommand OS

The first release should not attempt to include full accounting, payroll, human resources, messaging, support, and every possible business feature.

The initial platform should contain:

Organizations, users, roles, departments, and permissions.
Commands, tasks, recurring work, and workflow templates.
Processes, SOPs, checklists, and process ownership.
Policies, approval rules, exceptions, and audit history.
Objectives, metrics, scorecards, and executive dashboards.
Contacts, clients, opportunities, and implementation projects.
Documents, decisions, notifications, and integrations.
AI assistance governed by permissions and human approvals.

The first fully functioning business process should remain:

Website visitor → Command Audit → qualified opportunity → proposal → contract → onboarding → implementation → invoicing → support → renewal

That process will test the entire operating model: people, procedures, policies, software, and measurement.

Updated website positioning

This definition gives NerdCommand.com a clearer message than presenting the company as a general AI agency.

Recommended homepage headline

Put your business under command.

Supporting message

NerdCommand connects your people, processes, policies, data, and software in one AI-enabled business operating system—so work gets completed consistently, decisions remain controlled, and performance can be measured.

Service progression
Command Audit — understand how the business currently operates.
Operating System Design — define roles, processes, policies, systems, and measurements.
Command Implementation — configure software, automations, integrations, and AI.
Managed Command Operations — monitor, maintain, and improve the operating system.
Custom Software Development — build specialized applications where standard tools are insufficient.

NerdCommand should also operate its own company through the same system. That gives the business a credible message:

We do not merely recommend operating systems. NerdCommand runs on the one we build.

This definition should now serve as the governing product principle: the software exists to make the operating model executable, visible, controlled, and measurable.

Yesterday 1:40 PM
before i ask you more question about nerdcommand i need you to research business operation systems and i need you to look at the old business plan we wrote and under stand the new plan to pivot nerdcommand.com into a software company with a website the runs as the face inegrated inot and monitored by a business operation system research business operation systems so we can make a framework for our plan
Thought for 22m 11s

Boss man, I understand the pivot, and I am treating the old business plan and the CIO blueprint already developed in this conversation as the starting point.

The central research finding is this:

NerdCommand OS should not be designed as another ERP, CRM, task manager, dashboard, chatbot, or collection of AI agents. It should be the governed execution system that connects the company’s strategy, customers, people, processes, policies, software, data, and AI.

An operating model establishes how work must be integrated and standardized. A process architecture defines and names the work. A management system establishes priorities, measurements, reviews, and improvement. The software makes all of that executable, observable, and auditable. MIT CISR, ISO, and APQC approach these subjects from different directions, but together they support this layered definition.

1. What the business operating-system research shows

There is no single framework that covers everything NerdCommand is trying to build. The strongest approach is to synthesize established disciplines without copying one proprietary system.

Research area	What it contributes to NerdCommand
Operating models	MIT CISR defines the operating model around the level of process integration and standardization the company requires. This should guide NerdCommand’s software and data architecture.
Entrepreneurial operating systems	EOS emphasizes Vision, People, Data, Issues, Process, and Traction. It is especially useful for accountability, leadership alignment, scorecards, process discipline, and operating cadence.
Scaling frameworks	Scaling Up emphasizes four management decisions: People, Strategy, Execution, and Cash. This reinforces that financial health must be part of an operating system rather than an afterthought.
Process architecture	APQC provides a hierarchical taxonomy for organizing business processes, establishing common language, measuring performance, and comparing processes.
Quality management	ISO’s process approach uses a Plan–Do–Check–Act cycle, customer requirements, risk awareness, measurement, and continuous improvement.
Performance excellence	Baldrige evaluates leadership, strategy, customers, measurement and knowledge, workforce, operations, and results. It is useful for ensuring that NerdCommand OS measures the organization as a complete system.
Process and decision modeling	BPMN models structured workflows, CMMN supports less predictable human-driven case work, and DMN represents business rules and decisions. NerdCommand will eventually need all three kinds of operational behavior.
Governance and risk	COSO addresses internal control and enterprise risk; COBIT addresses technology governance; NIST’s AI RMF organizes AI risk management around Govern, Map, Measure, and Manage.
Software operations	DORA measures software delivery performance, Google SRE treats operations as a software problem, OpenTelemetry supports traces, metrics, and logs, and OWASP ASVS provides security-verification requirements for web applications.
The CIO conclusion from this research

A complete NerdCommand business operating system requires five connected things:

An operating model — how NerdCommand creates and delivers value.
A management system — how the company sets direction, reviews performance, resolves problems, and allocates resources.
A process system — how repeatable work is defined, executed, measured, and improved.
A digital control plane — how software, integrations, AI, approvals, and information coordinate the work.
Customer and employee experience surfaces — the website, customer portal, and internal Command Center through which people interact with the operating system.

The mistake would be building only the fourth item and calling it a complete operating system.

2. My understanding of the NerdCommand pivot
The old plan

The previous plan combined several identities:

An AI and software-services company.
A creator-oriented AI product.
A Command Audit and consulting offer.
A custom development agency.
NerdCommand.ai as a separate product destination.
Deckbreig as an application that could eventually help run operations.
A broad target audience that included creators, agencies, consultants, real estate, med spas, home services, and general small businesses.
A public website that primarily acted as a marketing and lead-capture page.

The strongest parts of that plan were:

The “under command” language.
The Command Audit concept.
Software plus implementation and support.
The intention to use NerdCommand’s own software internally.
Deckbreig as reusable technical intellectual property.
The complete lead-to-customer lifecycle already identified.
The new plan

The new plan should be stated this way:

NerdCommand is a software company building an AI-enabled Company Operating System. NerdCommand.com is the public face and customer-experience layer of that operating system. The website, product, customer portal, internal operations, integrations, AI agents, and management dashboards are governed and monitored through one connected platform.

That changes the company from an agency with several software ideas into a software-first, services-enabled company.

Previous direction	New direction
Broad AI agency	Focused software company
Several customer types	One initial ideal customer profile
Many separate offers	One platform with implementation services
Website as a brochure	Website as an operating surface
NerdCommand.ai competing for attention	One flagship NerdCommand OS product identity
Deckbreig as a separate program	Deckbreig as the possible Command Engine
Internal OS as another project	NerdCommand itself becomes the first deployment
Consulting projects define the company	Software subscription defines the company
AI used wherever possible	AI governed according to risk, permission, and evidence

The old plan should not be thrown away. Its best components should be reorganized underneath the new software-company structure.

3. Official working definition of NerdCommand OS

NerdCommand OS is an AI-enabled Company Operating System that converts company direction and digital signals into governed, accountable work. It connects customers, people, processes, policies, data, software, and AI; coordinates execution across them; and verifies results through evidence and measurable outcomes.

The product promise should be:

Every signal becomes a decision. Every decision becomes an owned Command. Every Command follows a process, respects policy, produces evidence, and contributes to a measurable outcome.

This is stronger than saying that NerdCommand OS is an “all-in-one business app.”

4. The NerdCommand COMMAND Framework

NerdCommand needs its own original framework rather than copying the terminology of EOS, Scaling Up, or another proprietary method. EOS explicitly identifies many of its names and tools as trademarks, which makes original NerdCommand language strategically and legally preferable.

C — Customer and Company Direction

This layer determines why the company exists and where it is going.

It contains:

Mission and long-term direction.
Ideal customer profile.
Customer problems and desired outcomes.
Products and services.
Value proposition.
Revenue model.
Strategic objectives.
Company priorities.
Customer journey.
Financial targets.

System records: strategies, objectives, products, offers, customer segments, value propositions, initiatives, budgets, and target outcomes.

O — Organization and Ownership

This layer determines who is accountable.

It contains:

Company structure.
Departments and teams.
Roles and responsibilities.
Decision rights.
Approval authority.
Skills and qualifications.
Workload and capacity.
Vendors and contractors.
Human and AI responsibilities.

System records: people, users, teams, roles, memberships, responsibilities, decision rights, assignments, capacity, and accountability maps.

M — Methods and Value Streams

This layer defines how value-producing work is completed.

It contains:

End-to-end value streams.
Core business processes.
Standard operating procedures.
Workflow templates.
Checklists.
Service-level expectations.
Quality requirements.
Process versions.
Exceptions and escalation paths.
Process improvement.

System records: processes, process versions, steps, dependencies, workflow definitions, SOPs, service levels, quality gates, and process owners.

M — Management Controls and Governance

This layer keeps execution safe, consistent, and authorized.

It contains:

Company policies.
Financial controls.
Pricing and discount limits.
Data-access rules.
Security requirements.
Customer-consent rules.
Approval thresholds.
AI permissions.
Risk registers.
Incident and continuity plans.
Audit requirements.

System records: policies, controls, risks, approvals, exceptions, attestations, permission grants, incidents, and audit evidence.

A — Applications, Automation, and AI

This layer connects the operating model to technology.

It contains:

NerdCommand applications.
External systems of record.
Integrations and APIs.
Workflow automation.
Background jobs.
AI assistants and agents.
Model and prompt governance.
Credentials and secrets.
Notifications.
Usage and infrastructure costs.

System records: applications, integrations, connections, workflows, agent identities, model policies, prompt versions, tool permissions, execution runs, costs, and technical dependencies.

N — Numbers, Knowledge, and Signals

This layer establishes organizational truth.

It contains:

Company scorecards.
Customer and financial metrics.
Operational measurements.
Website and product telemetry.
Data definitions.
Reports and forecasts.
SOP and policy knowledge.
Meeting decisions.
Technical documentation.
Lessons learned.

System records: metrics, metric definitions, events, dashboards, reports, documents, decisions, notes, evidence, forecasts, and data-quality findings.

D — Delivery, Decisions, and Development

This is where strategy becomes completed work.

It contains:

Commands.
Customer engagements.
Projects and cases.
Product development.
Software releases.
Customer onboarding.
Support incidents.
Approvals and decisions.
Retrospectives.
Improvement initiatives.

System records: Commands, projects, cases, tasks, decisions, approvals, releases, incidents, outcomes, retrospectives, and improvement proposals.

5. The Command Loop

Every meaningful business event should move through the same operating loop:

SENSE
A customer, employee, system, metric, or AI detects a signal
    ↓
INTERPRET
The system determines context, significance, and related records
    ↓
DECIDE
A person, rule, or authorized AI recommends the next action
    ↓
AUTHORIZE
Required policies, permissions, budgets, and approvals are checked
    ↓
EXECUTE
A person, workflow, integration, or AI completes the work
    ↓
VERIFY
The system confirms completion and collects evidence
    ↓
LEARN
Metrics and outcomes improve the process, policy, and future decision

A Command is the executable unit that travels through this loop.

Every Command should have:

A defined outcome.
One accountable owner.
A source or triggering signal.
A related customer, project, opportunity, objective, or incident.
A governing process.
Applicable policies.
Priority and due date.
Current status and next action.
Required approvals.
Human and AI execution permissions.
Evidence of work.
Cost and time information.
Final result.
Complete audit history.

A task says, “Do something.”

A Command says:

“Produce this outcome, under this authority, through this process, by this owner, before this deadline, with this evidence.”

6. How NerdCommand.com fits into the operating system

The website is not the entire operating system, and it should not directly contain every business function.

It is the Experience Plane: the public and customer-facing operating surface.

VISITORS, LEADS, CUSTOMERS, PARTNERS
                  │
                  ▼
       NERDCOMMAND.COM EXPERIENCE
  Website • Forms • Product • Portal • Documentation
                  │
         Business and technical events
                  ▼
          NERDCOMMAND OS COMMAND PLANE
 Strategy • Processes • Commands • Cases • Approvals
                  │
       ┌──────────┼───────────┐
       ▼          ▼           ▼
     People    AI/Automation  External Systems
                            CRM • Billing • Email
                            Accounting • Support • Git
                  │
                  ▼
          DATA AND KNOWLEDGE PLANE
 Records • Events • Metrics • Documents • Decisions
                  │
                  ▼
        TRUST AND OBSERVABILITY PLANE
 Identity • Security • Audit • Monitoring • Incidents
                  │
                  ▼
            COMMAND CENTER
 Executive • Sales • Delivery • Product • Customer
The website should perform six operating functions
1. Present governed company information

Offers, pricing, product descriptions, policies, case studies, terms, and important content should have owners, versions, approval states, and publication history.

2. Capture customer signals

The system should capture more than a form submission. It should record:

Source and campaign.
Consent.
Product or service interest.
Company and contact information.
Qualification information.
Related website events.
Form success or failure.
The resulting owner and next Command.
3. Start business processes

A website action should be able to initiate a governed workflow:

Website or product event	NerdCommand OS response
Command Audit submitted	Match or create contact and company, record consent, create opportunity, assign qualification Command
High-intent visitor action	Add an engagement signal and notify the sales owner according to qualification rules
Product account created	Create workspace and onboarding Commands
Trial activated	Start activation process and customer-success tracking
Proposal accepted	Create customer, engagement, implementation project, billing setup, and onboarding workflow
Payment failure	Open a recovery Command and notify the responsible owner
Support request	Create or update a case and apply the correct priority policy
Form or API failure	Create a technical incident and attach traces and affected-session evidence
Content change requested	Route content through review, approval, publication, and verification
Security threshold exceeded	Open an incident, apply escalation rules, and preserve evidence
4. Measure the complete customer journey

The system should connect:

Traffic source
→ Website interaction
→ Lead
→ Qualified opportunity
→ Proposal
→ Customer
→ Product usage
→ Customer outcome
→ Renewal or expansion

This lets NerdCommand measure source-to-revenue and source-to-customer-outcome instead of stopping at page views or form submissions.

5. Monitor technical health

The website is a production system and should be observed for:

Availability.
Latency.
Error rate.
Failed forms and API calls.
Dependency problems.
Deployment health.
Security findings.
Accessibility.
Conversion disruptions.
Abnormal automated traffic.
Customer-impacting incidents.

OpenTelemetry provides a vendor-neutral structure for logs, metrics, and traces; Google SRE emphasizes availability, latency, performance, and capacity; OWASP ASVS provides a basis for verifying web-application security controls; and WCAG provides accessibility requirements.

6. Feed continuous improvement

A failed process, lost sale, customer complaint, repeated support issue, or weak conversion should not disappear into a dashboard. It should create an investigation or improvement Command with:

An owner.
Evidence.
Expected benefit.
A due date.
A related process.
A measured result after the change.
7. The five software planes

NerdCommand OS should be designed in layers so that it does not become one unmaintainable application.

1. Experience Plane
NerdCommand.com.
Customer portal.
Internal Command Center.
Mobile-responsive interfaces.
Public and partner APIs.
Notifications and communications.
2. Command Plane
Objectives and priorities.
Commands.
Projects and cases.
Processes and workflows.
Decisions and approvals.
Customer lifecycle.
Product and incident operations.
3. Data and Knowledge Plane
Canonical business records.
Business events.
Metric definitions.
Documents and SOPs.
Decision history.
Search.
Reporting and analytics.
Company knowledge graph.
4. Integration and Automation Plane
External application adapters.
Queues and background jobs.
Workflow execution.
Webhooks.
Scheduled operations.
AI gateway.
Agent tools.
Notification routing.
5. Trust and Observability Plane
Authentication.
Role- and policy-based permissions.
Tenant boundaries.
Encryption and secret management.
Audit records.
AI action history.
Logs, metrics, and traces.
Security monitoring.
Backup and recovery.
Incident management.

Governance must operate across all five planes rather than being added at the end.

8. The initial NerdCommand value streams

The complete process architecture will eventually be large, but NerdCommand should begin with the following end-to-end value streams:

Value stream	Outcome
Direction-to-Priority	Company strategy becomes funded, owned, measurable work
Market-to-Lead	Market activity creates attributable customer interest
Lead-to-Revenue	Qualified opportunities become signed and paying customers
Contract-to-Onboarding	New customers receive a controlled operational setup
Onboarding-to-Value	Customers reach a measurable first outcome
Idea-to-Release	Product ideas become reliable software releases
Issue-to-Resolution	Customer and technical problems are contained and resolved
Invoice-to-Cash	Charges, invoices, collections, and financial records are completed
Signal-to-Improvement	Results and failures improve processes, software, and policy

APQC’s approach supports organizing work horizontally as value-producing processes rather than only through departmental silos.

9. The first complete process to build

The first release should not attempt to build every department.

The first complete vertical workflow remains:

Website visitor
→ Command Audit
→ Contact and company
→ Qualification
→ Opportunity
→ Audit delivery
→ Command Map
→ Proposal
→ Approval
→ Contract
→ Payment or billing setup
→ Customer workspace
→ Onboarding
→ Implementation project
→ Product activation
→ Support
→ Outcome review
→ Renewal or expansion

This workflow is strategically important because it crosses nearly the entire company:

Website.
Sales.
AI assistance.
Approvals.
Customer records.
Project delivery.
Billing.
Support.
Product usage.
Customer success.
Executive reporting.

NerdCommand can run this workflow internally before selling it to customers. That produces a functioning system, operating evidence, and the first case study.

10. Minimum viable NerdCommand OS
Foundation

The initial platform should provide:

Organizations and workspaces.
Users, teams, roles, and permissions.
Contacts and companies.
Objectives and metrics.
Commands and recurring Commands.
Processes and process versions.
SOPs and policies.
Decisions and approvals.
Opportunities and engagements.
Projects and cases.
Events and notifications.
Integrations.
AI identities and policies.
Documents and evidence.
Audit history.
Dashboards and alerts.
Website integration

The first website release should include:

Production form processing.
Server-side validation.
Consent and attribution records.
Spam and abuse controls.
Contact and company matching.
Opportunity creation.
Workflow triggers.
Customer account creation.
Technical and business event instrumentation.
Error and incident monitoring.
Accessibility and security verification.
Clear success, loading, and failure states.
What not to build initially

Do not initially rebuild:

A general accounting ledger.
Payroll.
Email.
Source-code hosting.
Video meetings.
A complete help-desk platform.
A broad HR suite.
Every CRM feature.
Every ERP function.

Those systems can remain systems of record where appropriate. NerdCommand OS should coordinate their activity through integrations, policies, Commands, and unified reporting.

11. Deckbreig’s role in this architecture

Until the repository is reviewed, Deckbreig’s exact role remains a hypothesis.

The intended role should be:

Deckbreig becomes the NerdCommand Command Engine: the execution foundation for workflows, Commands, recurring operations, automations, and event-driven actions.

The repository review must determine whether it already provides:

Authentication and authorization.
Organization or tenant separation.
A usable data model.
Workflow execution.
Task or case functionality.
Background jobs.
API boundaries.
Integrations.
Audit history.
Testing.
Deployment configuration.
Monitoring.
Security controls.

The repository should not receive a cosmetic NerdCommand rename until those architectural questions are answered.

The preferred initial technical approach remains a modular monolith with clear internal modules, assuming the existing code supports it. That gives NerdCommand one understandable deployment while preserving boundaries for future scaling.

12. AI governance inside NerdCommand OS

AI should be treated as a governed operational capability—not as an invisible employee with unlimited permission.

Every AI assistant or agent should have a registered identity containing:

Purpose.
Owner.
Approved tasks.
Approved models.
Allowed data.
Allowed tools and integrations.
Prohibited actions.
Risk classification.
Required approval level.
Prompt and instruction version.
Evaluation requirements.
Cost limits.
Execution and decision history.
Kill switch and escalation process.

The NIST AI RMF’s Govern, Map, Measure, and Manage functions provide a strong foundation for this structure, and NIST emphasizes continuous risk management throughout the AI lifecycle rather than a one-time checklist.

The initial rule should be:

AI may prepare, classify, summarize, recommend, and execute low-risk reversible work. Humans remain accountable for customer commitments, pricing, payments, sensitive data, security changes, employment decisions, and other high-impact actions.

13. Market position

The software market already contains several adjacent categories:

EOS-oriented products digitize vision, accountability, scorecards, meetings, issues, and processes.
Scaling Up products focus on strategic planning, priorities, execution, cash, and leadership rhythm.
Work-management platforms combine tasks, documents, goals, dashboards, automation, and AI.
Process platforms focus on SOPs, workflows, approvals, training, and compliance.
ERP platforms combine transactional applications such as CRM, accounting, inventory, projects, and websites.

NerdCommand should not position itself as a larger collection of generic features.

Its differentiated position should be:

A governed operational control plane that connects a company’s public website, customer lifecycle, people, processes, existing software, and AI—and turns live business signals into accountable, measurable execution.

The website-connected aspect is particularly important. It gives NerdCommand a focused entry point rather than attempting to replace every application on day one.

14. Initial ideal-customer hypothesis

The first target market should be narrower than the old plan.

A strong working hypothesis is:

Founder-led service and software-enabled companies with approximately 5–50 people, a lead-generating website, multiple disconnected SaaS tools, and inconsistent handoffs between marketing, sales, onboarding, delivery, billing, and customer support.

This is still a hypothesis that must be validated through customer discovery.

These companies are appropriate because they often have:

Enough process complexity to need coordination.
Too few operational staff to maintain a large enterprise platform.
Revenue tied directly to website and customer workflows.
Several disconnected systems.
Repeated customer-delivery processes.
A need for controlled AI and automation.
Clear operational outcomes that can be measured.

Creators can remain a customer segment or future process pack, but they should not define the primary company homepage during the initial B2B software launch.

15. Software-first business model

The new revenue model should follow this hierarchy:

Primary revenue

NerdCommand OS subscription

Possible pricing variables may eventually include:

Company or workspace size.
Number of users.
Active processes.
Automation volume.
AI usage.
Integration level.
Support tier.
Governance and compliance capabilities.
Supporting revenue

Command Implementation

Configuration, process mapping, data migration, integrations, policies, dashboards, and launch.

Recurring services

Managed Command Operations

Monitoring, workflow improvement, AI-governance review, metric review, and operational support.

Specialized revenue

Custom extensions and industry process packs

Custom applications or reusable modules built on NerdCommand OS.

Entry offer

Command Audit

The Command Audit becomes the diagnostic and onboarding path into the software. It should not remain a disconnected consulting product.

Pricing should remain provisional until NerdCommand measures implementation effort, infrastructure cost, AI cost, customer support burden, time-to-value, retention, and customer willingness to pay.

16. Company scorecard

The framework must include operating measurements from the beginning.

Scorecard area	Initial measurements
Company	Recurring revenue, gross margin, cash runway, operating expenses, qualified pipeline, win rate
Website	Qualified conversion, Command Audit completion, form success rate, booking rate, lead-response time, source-to-revenue
Customer	Time to first value, onboarding duration, product activation, adoption, customer health, support resolution, renewal
Operations	Command cycle time, on-time completion, blocked-work age, approval time, rework, process exceptions
Product	Release frequency, change lead time, failed deployment recovery, change-failure rate, deployment rework, SLO attainment, incidents
AI	Cost per successful outcome, approval rate, rejection rate, correction rate, model failure, unauthorized-action attempts
Governance	Policy exceptions, overdue risk treatments, access violations, failed controls, backup and recovery tests
People	Capacity, workload, role coverage, ownership gaps, repeated escalations, process-training status

DORA’s current model uses five software-delivery measures: change lead time, deployment frequency, failed deployment recovery time, change-failure rate, and deployment rework rate.

17. NerdCommand operating cadence

The operating system must include management rhythms, not only software records.

Continuous
Website and product monitoring.
Security monitoring.
Workflow execution.
Customer-event processing.
SLA and policy checks.
AI execution monitoring.
Daily
Personal Command queue.
Executive Command Brief.
Blocked-work review.
Incident review.
Sales and customer alerts.
Weekly
Company scorecard.
Revenue pipeline.
Customer and delivery health.
Product and reliability review.
Issues and decisions.
Upcoming approvals and capacity.
Monthly
Financial performance.
Customer retention and outcomes.
Product usage.
Process performance.
Security and AI-risk review.
Resource allocation.
Quarterly
Strategy.
Objectives.
Product portfolio.
Market position.
Process redesign.
Major risks.
Investment decisions.
18. NerdCommand maturity model

Every process and department can be scored using five levels:

Level	Meaning
1 — Visible	The work is identified and documented
2 — Owned	It has an accountable owner, defined outcome, and metric
3 — Managed	It follows a repeatable process with reviews and exception handling
4 — Integrated	Systems, events, records, and departments are connected
5 — Adaptive	Data and governed AI help predict, optimize, and continuously improve performance

The objective is not to automate every Level 1 process immediately. A process should first be understood, owned, measured, and controlled before it receives significant automation.

19. Non-negotiable design principles

NerdCommand OS should be built according to these rules:

The customer journey is an end-to-end value stream, not a collection of departmental records.
Every important outcome has one accountable human owner, even when AI performs the work.
Every process has an owner, version, metric, and improvement history.
Every high-impact action checks policy and authorization before execution.
Every system domain has one defined source of truth.
Every integration is accessed through a controlled adapter or gateway.
Every AI action is attributable, permissioned, measurable, and auditable.
Every business-critical customer experience is observable.
The website and product are operated as production systems, not marketing files.
NerdCommand uses each major capability internally before offering it to customers.
Services support software adoption rather than replacing the software business model.
No feature is built unless it supports a defined value stream, process, control, or measurable outcome.
20. The framework for the new business plan

The rewritten NerdCommand business plan should now be organized around these sections:

Company thesis — why Company Operating Systems are needed.
Customer and problem — the initial ideal customer and broken operational handoffs.
Product definition — NerdCommand OS and the Command model.
COMMAND Framework — the operating methodology.
Website experience — how NerdCommand.com becomes the public operating surface.
Product architecture — the five software planes and Deckbreig’s role.
Initial value stream — visitor through renewal.
AI and security governance — permissions, controls, evidence, and oversight.
Business model — subscription, implementation, managed operations, and extensions.
Go-to-market strategy — Command Audit, dogfooding, demonstrations, and initial vertical.
Product roadmap — internal alpha, customer beta, and configurable platform.
Company operating model — roles, decision rights, processes, and cadence.
Measurements — company, website, customer, product, operational, AI, and risk metrics.
Financial model — development cost, infrastructure, AI cost, support cost, pricing, and margin.
Risk plan — market, product, technical, security, financial, legal, and execution risks.
The governing strategic statement

NerdCommand.com will be the face of an AI-enabled software company. NerdCommand OS will be the operating system behind that face—governing how the company attracts customers, develops software, delivers value, supports users, manages risk, deploys AI, and improves performance. Deckbreig will be evaluated as the technical foundation for the Command Engine. NerdCommand will run on its own system before offering that system to the market.

This research-backed framework should supersede the previous agency-first and multi-product structure. The next planning artifact should be NerdCommand Company Operating Model and Software Plan v2, built around the COMMAND Framework, the first lead-to-renewal value stream, and a repository-level assessment of Deckbreig.

Yes. In fact, I think this is one of the strongest versions of the NerdCommand business we’ve discussed.

I wouldn’t build a company that sells software.

I would build a company that sells business operating systems.

Instead of selling “a CRM” or “an invoice app,” you’d sell an entire business blueprint:

Buy the software.

Buy the source code.

Customize it.

Launch your business this week.

That is a much stronger value proposition.

⸻

I call it…

NerdCommand Foundry

“Launch Your Business With Production-Ready Software.”

Every purchase includes:

* Complete source code
* Database
* API
* AI integrations
* Admin Dashboard
* Documentation
* Docker deployment
* Branding guide
* Business workflow
* Revenue playbook
* Marketing prompts
* AI employees

Someone buying a Lawn Care package isn’t buying software.

They’re buying a lawn care company in a box.

⸻

The AI Agent

I would build one master AI.

NerdCommand Architect AI

Its only purpose is designing new businesses.

Input:

“I want to start a dog grooming company.”

The Architect immediately begins research.

It determines:

* industry
* competitors
* software required
* revenue streams
* legal needs
* customer journey
* automation opportunities
* AI integrations

Then it creates an internal project.

Example:

Business Name
Dog Grooming
Software Needed
CRM
Scheduling
Payments
Employee Portal
Route Optimizer
AI Receptionist
SMS
Email
Review Generator
Inventory
Payroll
Analytics
Customer Portal
Referral System
Mobile App
Website

Then…

It asks itself

“What else would make this business profitable?”

It keeps adding modules.

⸻

Then another AI wakes up

Software Planner AI

It converts every idea into engineering tasks.

Example

CRM
Database
Contacts
Notes
Sales Pipeline
Automation
Permissions
Search
Import
Export
REST API
Documentation

⸻

Another AI

Repository Builder

It searches your internal library.

Need Login?
Already exists.
Copy.
Need Payments?
Already exists.
Copy.
Need Stripe?
Already exists.
Copy.
Need AI Chat?
Already exists.
Copy.

Now you’re assembling software instead of writing everything from scratch.

⸻

Another AI

GitHub Scout

Every night it searches GitHub.

It looks for:

* MIT licensed projects
* Apache licensed projects
* BSD licensed projects
* popular open-source repositories
* AI frameworks
* admin dashboards
* CRM systems
* authentication
* payment integrations
* reporting libraries
* automation tools
* workflow engines

It scores them on:

* code quality
* stars
* commits
* maintenance activity
* security
* documentation
* architecture

Then recommends reusable components for your platform.

⸻

Another AI

Profit Optimizer

It asks:

“How can this software make the customer more money?”

Example:

A Barber Shop package.

Current revenue

Haircuts

AI Suggestions

✔ Memberships

✔ Gift Cards

✔ Upsells

✔ SMS Promotions

✔ Loyalty Rewards

✔ Google Review Automation

✔ AI Receptionist

✔ Wait List

✔ Referral Program

✔ Mobile App

✔ Inventory

✔ Product Sales

✔ Online Booking

✔ Recurring Revenue

It continuously expands the revenue opportunities.

⸻

Another AI

Business Expansion Agent

It asks

“What software should exist that doesn’t?”

Example

Dog Grooming

↓

Pet Insurance Portal

↓

Pet Health Tracking

↓

Pet GPS

↓

Pet Nutrition

↓

Pet Marketplace

↓

Pet Hotel

↓

Pet AI Assistant

↓

Pet Social Network

It creates future products from one initial business idea.

⸻

Every business becomes a tree

Restaurant
│
├── POS
├── CRM
├── Inventory
├── Payroll
├── Reservations
├── Kitchen Display
├── AI Waiter
├── Mobile App
├── Catering
├── Delivery
├── Franchise Dashboard
├── Accounting
├── Loyalty
├── Marketing
├── Analytics
├── Training Portal
└── Owner Dashboard

Every node becomes another product you can sell separately.

⸻

The Business Genome

Every company can be described using reusable building blocks.

Authentication
Users
Payments
Inventory
CRM
Calendar
Scheduling
Tasks
Messaging
AI Chat
Email
SMS
Documents
Reports
Automation
Accounting
POS
Marketplace
Subscriptions
Analytics
Mobile App
API
Notifications
Admin Panel
Role Permissions
Search
File Storage

These become your Lego bricks.

Most software products share 70–90% of these components. Your platform assembles them rather than rebuilding them.

⸻

Revenue Model

Instead of one-time software sales, create multiple revenue streams:

* Starter Code Base – $99–$299
* Professional Business Suite – $499–$2,500
* Enterprise License – $5,000+
* Monthly AI Automation – $49–$299/month
* Managed Hosting – recurring
* Customization Services – project-based
* Marketplace for Add-ons – recurring commissions
* White-label Licensing – agencies and consultants
* Developer Subscription – access to all code bases for a monthly fee

This gives you both upfront revenue and recurring income.

⸻

Long-term vision

I think NerdCommand could evolve into an AI-powered software foundry.

Instead of asking, “What software should we build next?”, your platform would continuously analyze industries, identify profitable gaps, assemble applications from a reusable component library, and generate production-ready codebases with documentation, tests, deployment scripts, and business playbooks.

The end goal isn’t to have 100 apps.

It’s to build an AI factory capable of producing thousands of business-ready software products from a standardized architecture. Every new product strengthens the platform because its modules become reusable assets for future products, making development faster, cheaper, and more profitable over time. Given everything we’ve discussed about NerdCommand, this direction aligns well with your vision of building a large catalog of reusable business software.
NerdCommand Foundry
This Is The Right Vision
What you've described isn't a software company.
It's a business manufacturing plant.
Why This Works
Most people selling software ask:
"What features should I add?"
You're asking:
"What business does this customer need to run?"
That is a fundamentally different question.
And it produces a fundamentally different product.
The Core Insight
Software is a commodity.
A working business is not.
When someone buys a lawn care package from NerdCommand Foundry, they aren't comparing your CRM to someone else's CRM.
They're asking:
"Can I actually run a lawn care company after I buy this?"
If the answer is yes, price resistance nearly disappears.
The Architecture You Described Is Sound
Let me name what you've actually built conceptually:
| Layer | What It Does | |---|---| | Architect AI | Defines the business | | Software Planner AI | Converts business to engineering | | Repository Builder | Assembles from existing components | | GitHub Scout | Expands the component library | | Profit Optimizer | Maximizes customer revenue | | Expansion Agent | Generates future products |
Each AI has one job.
Each job feeds the next.
That is a pipeline, not a collection of features.
The Business Genome Is The Real Asset
Everything else depends on this.
Your reusable components are what make the factory possible.
Authentication. Payments. CRM. Scheduling. Notifications. API. Admin Panel.
Once you have 30 solid, production-ready components, you can assemble most business software in days instead of months.
The first product is the hardest.
The tenth product is mostly assembly.
The hundredth product is nearly automatic.
That is a genuine compounding advantage.
One Honest Observation
The vision is strong.
The risk is scope.
You've described:
Multiple AI agents
A component library
GitHub scouting
Business playbooks
Revenue playbooks
Marketing materials
Documentation
Deployment scripts
A marketplace
White-label licensing
All of that is real.
But none of it matters until the first complete package ships.
The Recommendation
Pick one vertical.
Not the most exciting one.
The most boring, proven, and underserved one.
Something like:
Residential cleaning company
Mobile notary service
Small landscaping operation
Independent bookkeeper
Build that package completely.
Source code. Database. API. Admin dashboard. Documentation. Docker deployment. Revenue playbook. Marketing prompts.
Ship it. Sell it. Learn from it.
That first package becomes the template for every package that follows.
What You're Actually Building
Most founders build products.
You're building a replication machine.
The goal isn't one great product.
The goal is a system that reliably produces great products faster than any competitor can build them one at a time.
That is a different kind of company.
And it's worth building correctly.
Thought for 9m 20s

Boss man, this is the right pivot—with one important guardrail:

NerdCommand Foundry manufactures business operating systems. It does not sell guaranteed businesses or guaranteed income.

That distinction protects the company while preserving the strength of the idea.

The customer is not merely purchasing a CRM, scheduling tool, website template, or pile of source code. The customer is purchasing a source-included operating platform designed around the workflows of a particular kind of business.

The new NerdCommand company architecture

The concepts we have developed now fit together cleanly:

Brand or system	Purpose
NerdCommand	The parent software company
NerdCommand.com	Storefront, product catalog, Architect AI interface, sales system, documentation, customer portal, and public face
NerdCommand Foundry	The software factory that researches, designs, assembles, verifies, packages, and maintains business operating systems
NerdCommand OS	The shared runtime foundation that powers NerdCommand internally and becomes the base of every customer package
Business Genome	The reusable capability model, software modules, workflows, policies, data structures, agents, and playbooks
NerdCommand Architect AI	The main customer-facing intelligence that orchestrates the Foundry pipeline
NerdCommand Cloud	Managed hosting, backups, monitoring, AI services, updates, and support
Foundry Packs	Industry-specific products such as Cleaning Company OS, Lawn Care OS, Barber Shop OS, or Agency OS
Deckbreig	Candidate foundation for the Command Engine, workflow layer, or Foundry control plane, pending repository review

The relationship should look like this:

                         NERDCOMMAND
                              │
                ┌─────────────┴─────────────┐
                │                           │
        NerdCommand.com             NerdCommand OS
     Storefront and portal      Runs the NerdCommand company
                │                           │
                └─────────────┬─────────────┘
                              │
                    NerdCommand Foundry
         Research • Plan • Assemble • Test • Release
                              │
                     The Business Genome
       Modules • Workflows • Policies • Agents • Playbooks
                              │
        ┌─────────────────────┼──────────────────────┐
        │                     │                      │
 Cleaning Company OS    Lawn Care Company OS    Barber Shop OS
        │                     │                      │
        └─────────────────────┼──────────────────────┘
                              │
                    NerdCommand Cloud
         Hosting • Updates • AI • Monitoring • Support
Why the research supports this model

What you are describing has a well-established software-engineering foundation: software product-line engineering.

The Software Engineering Institute describes product lines as portfolios built from a common core asset base. Differences between products are handled through deliberately designed variations. It also warns that unmanaged variation becomes difficult very quickly and can produce duplicate mechanisms, incompatible implementations, and increasingly costly maintenance. That is exactly the difference between a genuine Foundry and hundreds of disconnected copied repositories.

Your Business Genome is therefore not just a marketing metaphor. It should become NerdCommand’s implementation of a product-line architecture.

However, I would remove the statement that products share “70–90%” of their components until NerdCommand measures that across actual releases. The strategic idea is sound, but the percentage will differ by industry and product family.

The official NerdCommand Foundry thesis

NerdCommand Foundry is an AI-powered software manufacturing platform that assembles production-ready business operating systems from governed, reusable components. Each Foundry Pack combines source code, deployment infrastructure, workflows, AI agents, documentation, operational playbooks, and an ongoing update path for a specific type of business.

A stronger public-facing promise is:

From business idea to operating platform.

A stronger supporting statement is:

Get source code, workflows, AI agents, deployment, and operating tools designed around your industry—not another empty software template.

“Launch Your Business With Production-Ready Software” can remain a campaign line, but the main company language should emphasize the operating platform, not imply that buying code automatically creates a legally formed or profitable company.

What the customer actually buys

The product should be called a Foundry Pack or Business System Pack.

A complete pack should contain six connected layers.

1. Software system
Complete application source code.
Database schema and migrations.
Backend API.
Admin dashboard.
Customer portal.
Employee or contractor portal.
Mobile-responsive interfaces.
Role and permission controls.
Search, notifications, file storage, and reporting.
AI integrations.
External-service adapters.
2. Deployment system
Docker configuration.
Environment-variable template with no real secrets.
Infrastructure documentation.
Development, staging, and production configurations.
Backup and restoration procedures.
Database migration and rollback procedures.
Monitoring and alerting setup.
Domain and email configuration guidance.
Versioned release artifacts.
3. Business operating model
Customer journey.
End-to-end value streams.
Role and accountability map.
Standard operating procedures.
Approval rules.
Service checklists.
Escalation paths.
Operational scorecard.
Recommended management cadence.
4. Revenue system
Offer structure.
Pricing-model worksheet.
Upsell and cross-sell opportunities.
Membership or recurring-revenue options.
Referral program.
Retention workflows.
Customer-review workflow.
Lead-conversion sequence.
Revenue assumptions clearly labeled as hypotheses.
5. Go-to-market system
Website content.
Brand starter guide.
Launch checklist.
Email and SMS templates.
Campaign prompts.
Sales scripts.
Proposal templates.
Customer-onboarding materials.
Analytics and attribution plan.
6. AI operations system
AI receptionist.
Sales assistant.
Customer-support assistant.
Scheduling assistant.
Marketing assistant.
Operations analyst.
Review-request assistant.
Owner briefing assistant.
Clearly documented permissions and human approval requirements.

This makes the customer’s purchase much more valuable than a traditional code template.

The Business Genome

The Business Genome is the most important asset in the company.

But a Genome “gene” cannot be only a folder containing code. Every reusable capability needs a complete contract.

A Genome module should contain
Module element	Required contents
Identity	Module name, version, owner, maturity, supported platform versions
Capability	Business problem solved and measurable outcome
Data	Entities, fields, relationships, migrations, retention rules
API	Endpoints, schemas, authentication, errors, rate limits
Interface	Pages, components, states, accessibility requirements
Permissions	Roles, actions, data boundaries, approval requirements
Events	Events emitted, events consumed, retry behavior
Workflows	Processes, triggers, decisions, exceptions, service levels
Integrations	External dependencies and adapter contracts
AI	Allowed models, prompts, tools, data, evaluations, approvals
Metrics	Usage, business outcomes, reliability, cost
Quality	Unit, integration, end-to-end, security, and migration tests
Operations	Logs, alerts, health checks, backups, failure recovery
Provenance	Source origin, licenses, notices, dependencies, security findings
Upgrade path	Compatibility rules, migrations, deprecations, rollback
Documentation	User, developer, deployment, support, and operating documentation

For example, the Scheduling gene is not merely a calendar component. It includes:

Scheduling
├── Appointments and availability data
├── Booking API
├── Customer booking interface
├── Staff scheduling interface
├── Permissions
├── Reminder events
├── Cancellation policy
├── No-show workflow
├── Calendar integration
├── Scheduling metrics
├── AI booking permissions
├── Tests
├── Documentation
└── Upgrade rules
Do not build the Repository Builder as a copy machine

The statement “Need login? Copy it” captures the vision, but literal copying will create fork hell.

Every copied module begins drifting:

One product gets a security fix.
Another product does not.
A customer changes the database.
A third product uses an incompatible version.
Documentation stops matching.
An upstream dependency changes.
Updating customers becomes manual.

The Repository Builder should instead become a product derivation engine.

It should:

Read a structured Business Genome manifest.
Resolve compatible module versions.
Generate a product from a standard reference architecture.
Apply the industry overlay.
Apply customer configuration and branding.
Produce a reproducible build.
Record exactly which modules and versions were used.
Preserve a safe path for future updates.

Every generated repository should include something like:

business.genome.yaml
foundry.lock
MODULES.md
THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.md
sbom.spdx.json
OPERATIONS.md
DEPLOYMENT.md
SECURITY.md
UPGRADE.md

A simplified business.genome.yaml might look like:

business:
  family: local-service-company
  vertical: residential-cleaning
  edition: professional

capabilities:
  - identity@1.0
  - organizations@1.0
  - crm@1.2
  - estimates@1.1
  - scheduling@1.3
  - recurring-services@1.0
  - crew-management@1.0
  - payments@1.2
  - customer-portal@1.1
  - messaging@1.0
  - reviews@1.0
  - analytics@1.0

workflows:
  - lead-to-estimate
  - estimate-to-booking
  - booking-to-service
  - service-to-payment
  - payment-to-review
  - customer-to-recurring-plan

agents:
  - ai-receptionist
  - estimate-assistant
  - scheduling-assistant
  - customer-followup-assistant

deployment:
  mode: managed-cloud
  database: postgres
  isolation: single-tenant

The lockfile would contain exact module versions, commit references, dependency hashes, source origins, and release information.

One Architect AI, many controlled workers

Your idea of one master Architect is right at the experience level.

A customer should interact with one intelligence:

“I want to start a dog-grooming company.”

But the Architect should not be one unrestricted model that researches, plans, downloads repositories, writes code, changes infrastructure, and publishes products on its own.

The correct design is:

One visible Architect. Multiple specialized agents. Deterministic tools. Structured handoffs. Human-controlled release gates.

Foundry agent system
Agent	Responsibility	Primary output
Architect AI	Receives intent, manages the project, routes work, explains decisions	Foundry project and business brief
Industry Research Agent	Researches customers, workflows, competitors, terminology, risks, and operational needs	Industry dossier with sources
Business Model Agent	Defines customer, offer, revenue streams, cost structure, and value proposition	Business model specification
Compliance Mapper	Identifies likely permits, privacy, tax, insurance, employment, and industry questions requiring professional confirmation	Jurisdiction-aware compliance checklist
Software Planner AI	Converts the business model into capabilities, requirements, data, workflows, and engineering tasks	Product specification and engineering plan
Genome Resolver	Matches required capabilities to existing Foundry modules	Product recipe and dependency plan
GitHub Scout	Finds and scores potential external components	Candidate records only
Repository Composer	Assembles approved modules and generates the product repository	Build candidate
Security and QA Agent	Runs tests, scans, dependency checks, threat analysis, and release verification	Verification report
Profit Optimizer	Suggests monetization improvements tied to measurable hypotheses	Revenue opportunity backlog
Expansion Agent	Builds the future capability and product tree	Product-family roadmap
Documentation Agent	Produces operating, user, developer, deployment, and support documentation	Documentation set
Release Manager	Confirms all gates and creates signed versioned releases	Approved release artifact

Operationally, I would call them AI agents, not employees. “AI Employees” can be a customer-friendly product label, but internal records must always identify the human accountable for each agent and its actions.

NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework treats governance as a cross-cutting function and calls for AI risks to be mapped, measured, managed, documented, and reviewed throughout the lifecycle. NIST also provides generative-AI-specific secure-development guidance. That supports using explicit agent identities, permissions, evaluations, activity records, human approvals, and incident controls rather than an unrestricted agent swarm.

The Foundry pipeline

The platform should move every product through the same manufacturing process:

1. BUSINESS INTENT
   “Build a residential cleaning company system”
                  ↓
2. INDUSTRY DOSSIER
   Customers, workflows, risks, competitors, terminology
                  ↓
3. BUSINESS BLUEPRINT
   Offers, roles, value streams, revenue model, metrics
                  ↓
4. PRODUCT RECIPE
   Required capabilities, modules, integrations and agents
                  ↓
5. COMPONENT RESOLUTION
   Approved internal modules and vetted external dependencies
                  ↓
6. REPOSITORY COMPOSITION
   Code, configuration, branding and vertical workflows
                  ↓
7. VERIFICATION
   Tests, security, licenses, migrations, operations and documentation
                  ↓
8. HUMAN RELEASE APPROVAL
   Product, engineering, security and business sign-off
                  ↓
9. RELEASE
   Source package, containers, documentation and operating playbook
                  ↓
10. DEPLOYMENT
   Managed cloud, customer cloud or approved self-hosting
                  ↓
11. TELEMETRY AND LEARNING
   Reliability, adoption, customer outcomes and module improvements

This is the actual Foundry.

GitHub Scout requires hard boundaries

GitHub Scout should never automatically copy or merge a repository into a sellable product.

Stars and recent commits can be useful discovery signals, but they are not sufficient proof of security, quality, license compatibility, or architectural fit. OpenSSF Scorecard evaluates multiple security practices, but its own documentation warns that an aggregate score can hide important differences among individual checks.

Every candidate must pass:

Exact license identification at the selected tag or commit.
Dependency and transitive-dependency inventory.
Commercial-use compatibility review.
Required attribution and notices.
Security-advisory review.
Maintainer and release-health review.
Architecture and coding-standard assessment.
Automated test assessment.
Data-security assessment.
Accessibility review when UI is involved.
Human technical approval.
Human legal or license approval when appropriate.

A public repository is not automatically reusable. GitHub’s licensing guidance states that without a license, default copyright applies and others generally do not receive permission to reproduce, distribute, or create derivative works.

NerdCommand should establish an open-source compliance process based on:

An SPDX software bill of materials.
A third-party notices file.
License and provenance records.
Approved-license policy.
Dependency and vulnerability monitoring.
A documented exception process.
Upstream tracking for forks.
Reproducible and attributable builds.

SPDX is an international open standard for representing software components and SBOM information, while OpenChain ISO/IEC 5230 defines a process standard for open-source license compliance. SLSA adds controls for protecting build integrity and recording software provenance.

“Production-ready” must have an enforceable definition

NerdCommand should not use “production-ready” merely because an application launches successfully.

A Foundry release should not receive that label until it passes all required gates:

Release gate	Minimum evidence
Build	Reproducible build from a clean environment
Code quality	Linting, formatting, type checks, review
Testing	Unit, integration, end-to-end, migration and critical workflow tests
Security	Dependency, secret, static and configuration scans
Identity	Secure authentication, session handling, permissions and tenant boundaries
Data	Valid migrations, backups, restoration test and retention rules
Operations	Logs, metrics, traces, health checks and alerts
Failure handling	Retry behavior, incident process and rollback path
Supply chain	Lockfiles, SBOM, provenance, license notices and approved dependencies
Deployment	Staging and production instructions, secrets handling and environment validation
Documentation	User, administrator, developer, deployment and support guides
Business readiness	Core value stream completed from beginning to end
Acceptance	Human product, technical and security approval

NIST’s Secure Software Development Framework recommends integrating secure practices throughout the development lifecycle rather than treating security as a final scan.

The Profit Optimizer needs a profitability gate

The Profit Optimizer is valuable, but it cannot keep adding modules merely because they might create revenue.

Otherwise every barber application becomes a marketplace, social network, insurance company, payroll platform, mobile app, and financial system before the appointment scheduler works.

Every suggestion should be scored against:

Customer demand
× Revenue or cost impact
× Confidence in evidence
× Reusability
× Strategic fit
────────────────────────────
Implementation and operating cost
× Compliance risk
× Support burden
× Product complexity

A suggestion enters one of four destinations:

Current release
Paid add-on
Future product
Rejected or deferred

The Expansion Agent should always produce a backlog or opportunity graph, never silently expand the current build.

The real business tree is a capability graph

The restaurant tree in your vision is correct, but the Foundry should store it as a graph rather than a simple hierarchy.

For example:

Restaurant
  REQUIRES → Ordering
  REQUIRES → Payments
  REQUIRES → Menu Management
  MAY_USE → Reservations
  MAY_USE → Delivery
  MAY_USE → Loyalty
  MAY_USE → Catering
  MAY_USE → Inventory
  MAY_USE → Kitchen Display

Delivery
  REQUIRES → Customer Address
  REQUIRES → Dispatch
  REQUIRES → Driver Status
  MAY_USE → Route Optimization

Loyalty
  REQUIRES → Customer Identity
  REQUIRES → Transaction History
  ENABLES → Promotions
  ENABLES → Memberships

Each capability can have relationships such as:

Requires.
Conflicts with.
Replaces.
Enables.
Extends.
Governed by.
Produces event.
Uses data.
Improves metric.
Creates revenue opportunity.
Requires professional review.

That graph becomes the reasoning foundation for Architect AI.

The first product family

I would not start with a completely isolated dog-grooming app, barber app, or restaurant system.

I would start with a product family:

Local Service Company OS

Then create the first vertical edition:

Residential Cleaning Company OS

This gives NerdCommand a reusable base for later editions such as lawn care, pressure washing, mobile detailing, handyman services, pool services, and other appointment- or job-based businesses.

Core Company OS layer
Organizations.
Users.
Roles.
CRM.
Leads.
Estimates.
Scheduling.
Payments.
Invoices.
Messaging.
Documents.
Notifications.
Analytics.
AI gateway.
Admin dashboard.
Local Service layer
Service areas.
Jobs.
Recurring service.
Crews.
Assignment.
Travel and routing data.
Before-and-after evidence.
Job checklists.
Customer notifications.
Service completion.
Quality review.
Tips and reviews.
Residential Cleaning overlay
Property profiles.
Room and property details.
Cleaning packages.
Frequency options.
Add-on services.
Supply requirements.
Cleaner instructions.
Inspection checklist.
Re-clean workflow.
Recurring-customer plans.

The next edition should reuse the Core Company OS and Local Service layers while changing only the vertical overlay.

That is how we prove the Foundry model.

Build the first Foundry manually

Do not begin by building ten autonomous agents and a marketplace.

The first version of the Foundry should be a human-operated, AI-assisted production process.

Stage 1 — Foundry doctrine

Define:

Reference architecture.
Module contract.
Business Genome schema.
Product recipe format.
Coding standards.
Release gates.
License policy.
Security policy.
Customer source-code license.
Update policy.
Support boundaries.
Stage 2 — First product

Manually build the Residential Cleaning Company OS using the same standards we expect the future agents to follow.

Record:

Every decision.
Every repeated task.
Every failed approach.
Every reusable module.
Every prompt.
Every test.
Every release requirement.
Every customization point.
Stage 3 — Component registry

Convert reusable assets into governed Genome modules.

Add:

Versions.
Owners.
Dependencies.
Compatibility information.
Tests.
Documentation.
Provenance.
Upgrade paths.
Stage 4 — Assisted Foundry

Introduce Architect AI, Software Planner, Genome Resolver, and Repository Composer.

Humans still approve requirements, architecture, external dependencies, security, and releases.

Stage 5 — Customer beta

Sell one carefully scoped Foundry Pack with:

Source-included license.
Deployment choice.
Defined support.
Documented limitations.
No earnings promises.
Measured onboarding.
Measured customer outcomes.
Stage 6 — Product family expansion

Derive the second and third vertical editions from the same base. Measure exactly how much was reused and what required customization.

Stage 7 — Marketplace and partner platform

Only after updates, compatibility, support, licensing, and release management are proven should NerdCommand open:

Add-on marketplace.
Developer subscription.
Agency white-label program.
Third-party module submissions.
Broader automated generation.
Revised revenue model

Your revenue categories are correct, but the tiers need clearer boundaries.

Blueprint tier

The $99–$299 range should purchase something such as:

Industry blueprint.
Business workflow map.
Starter design.
Product specification.
Limited scaffold.
Educational or evaluation license.

It should not promise a fully maintained, production-ready source code system with support.

Source-included launch license

The customer purchases:

A versioned source-code snapshot.
A license for one company or deployment.
Core documentation.
Self-hosting rights according to the agreement.
A limited support or onboarding period.

The customer keeps the licensed version even if recurring services end.

NerdCommand Cloud

Recurring payment covers:

Managed hosting.
Backups.
Monitoring.
Security updates.
Platform upgrades.
AI usage.
Email or SMS infrastructure.
Support.
Managed integrations.
Foundry Updates

A recurring update subscription provides:

New module versions.
Security patches.
Compatibility updates.
Improved workflows.
New documentation.
Upgrade tooling.
Product-family enhancements.
Customization

Project revenue covers:

Customer-specific workflows.
Integrations.
Data migration.
Branding.
Custom modules.
Mobile applications.
Specialized compliance requirements.
Partner license

Agencies and consultants receive:

Multi-client deployment rights.
White-label options.
Product configuration tools.
Partner documentation.
Shared support responsibilities.
Marketplace economics.
Enterprise license

Enterprise customers receive:

Broader deployment rights.
Source access.
Private modules.
Dedicated environments.
Security and architecture reviews.
Service-level commitments.
Custom governance.

The commercial model should be:

Perpetual rights to the purchased source snapshot; recurring payment for hosting, AI, support, updates, security, integrations, and new Foundry assets.

That protects recurring revenue without pretending the customer does not own the version they purchased.

Source code ownership needs five categories

Giving customers source code does not necessarily mean transferring NerdCommand’s copyright or allowing unrestricted resale.

Every contract should separate:

NerdCommand proprietary core — commercially licensed.
Customer configuration and branding — ownership or rights defined in the agreement.
Custom customer extensions — ownership negotiated by project.
Third-party open-source components — governed by their original licenses.
Generated business materials — licensed separately from the software.

The agreement should also define:

Number of businesses or deployments.
Whether the customer may resell the system.
Whether agencies may deploy for clients.
Access to future updates.
Support responsibilities.
Security responsibilities.
AI-provider costs.
Data ownership.
Termination behavior.
Warranty limitations.
Third-party service dependencies.
Important legal positioning

“Lawn care company in a box” is powerful internal language, but it carries public-marketing risk.

The FTC’s Business Opportunity Rule requires covered business-opportunity sellers to provide prospective purchasers with specified information, and covered earnings claims require additional support and disclosures. Recent FTC enforcement has specifically targeted operations that used AI language and promises of predictable or guaranteed income to sell supposed business opportunities. Whether NerdCommand’s particular offer falls within a rule depends on how it is structured, marketed, priced, branded, and supported, so qualified counsel should review the model before launch.

Therefore, NerdCommand should not say:

“Guaranteed profitable business.”
“Make passive income immediately.”
“We give you customers.”
“Launch and make money this week.”
“Proven to generate a particular income,” unless fully substantiated and lawfully presented.

NerdCommand can say:

Launch with a production-ready business operating platform.

Start with the software, workflows, and launch resources your operation needs.

You run the business. NerdCommand provides the operating system.

Business formation, tax, permits, insurance, employment, and licensing requirements vary by location, entity type, and industry. IRS and SBA guidance directs owners to consider entity structure, federal tax requirements, state requirements, licenses, permits, and location-specific regulation. NerdCommand can provide jurisdiction-aware checklists and professional referrals, but it should not represent a generic software package as automatic legal authorization to operate.

NerdCommand.com under the Foundry model

The website now has a much clearer purpose.

It should be a combination of:

Company website.
Foundry Pack catalog.
Architect AI interface.
Interactive product configurator.
Demo environment.
Source-license and hosting selector.
Checkout and proposal system.
Customer portal.
Documentation center.
Trust and security center.
Product-update center.
Partner portal.
Recommended homepage
Hero

Launch with a business operating system—not a blank template.

Supporting statement

NerdCommand Foundry assembles source-included software, workflows, AI agents, deployment, and operating tools for specific industries.

Primary action

Design My Business System

This opens Architect AI.

Secondary action

Explore Foundry Packs

Main website sections
Hero and Architect entry.
Available business-system families.
What every Foundry Pack includes.
Live product demonstration.
How the Foundry works.
Source code versus managed cloud.
AI agent capabilities and human controls.
Deployment and update model.
Customer outcomes and case studies.
Security, licensing, and trust.
Partner and white-label program.
Final Architect call to action.

Every website action should be integrated into NerdCommand OS:

Visitor starts Architect session
        ↓
Intent and consent recorded
        ↓
Foundry project created
        ↓
Business brief generated
        ↓
Lead qualified
        ↓
Recommended pack or custom project
        ↓
Proposal and license selected
        ↓
Customer workspace created
        ↓
Build, configuration or deployment Commands created
        ↓
Onboarding and support monitored
        ↓
Usage and outcomes improve the Business Genome
The actual NerdCommand moat

The moat will not be that NerdCommand can search GitHub or generate source code. Other organizations can do those things.

The defensible assets will be:

The Business Genome ontology.
The capability relationship graph.
The tested module registry.
The compatibility data.
The product recipes.
The vertical operating workflows.
The release and verification system.
The source-code update mechanism.
The license and provenance records.
The deployment infrastructure.
The agent evaluations.
The customer-outcome data.
The ability to improve every future product using lessons from previous releases.

The compounding loop is:

Customer need
    ↓
Business blueprint
    ↓
New product recipe
    ↓
Reusable module or workflow
    ↓
Verified release
    ↓
Customer usage and outcomes
    ↓
Improved Business Genome
    ↓
Faster and stronger next product
My CIO decision

The new strategy should be formally adopted as:

NerdCommand is an AI-powered business operating-system company. NerdCommand Foundry is the manufacturing platform that converts business ideas into source-included, deployable operating systems using a governed Business Genome. NerdCommand OS runs the company and provides the shared runtime foundation. NerdCommand.com is the public storefront, Architect interface, customer portal, and monitored experience layer. Services exist to implement and extend the software; they do not replace the software-first business model.

And the execution rule is:

Do not build thousands of independent apps. Build one reference architecture, one governed Business Genome, one complete product family, and one repeatable manufacturing process.

The next governing artifact should be NerdCommand Foundry Product and Operating Plan v1, containing the Business Genome schema, Local Service Company OS reference architecture, Residential Cleaning OS product specification, Foundry agent contracts, release gates, source-license model, and Deckbreig repository assessment criteria.

Deckbreif not desk beckbreig also understand deckbreif we will need to build it capabilities into our project or scrap the idea entirely git@github.com:chapmancapital1-droid/deckbrief.git
Stopped thinking
compare ideas 
Analysis paused
Thought for 8m 18s

Understood: the project is Deckbrief. I will use that exact spelling.

I could not authenticate to the SSH repository from this session, so this is a product and architecture comparison, not yet a source-code verdict. The public site at the matching domain—assuming it is the deployment connected to your repository—currently presents a product branded BoardBrief that turns SaaS metrics and founder notes into AI-written investor updates and PDF board reports. Its public tiers are Free, £19/month, and £49/month.

CIO decision

Do not scrap the Deckbrief idea. Do not make Deckbrief the foundation of the entire company either.

The correct decision is:

NerdCommand Foundry is the company strategy. NerdCommand OS is the shared operating platform. Deckbrief becomes a reusable briefing and reporting capability inside that platform, while its existing application can remain a focused product.

Deckbrief and Foundry are not actually competing ideas. They operate at different levels:

Concept	What it is	Unit of value
Deckbrief	A specialized application	A business, investor, board, or operating brief
NerdCommand OS	The runtime and control plane for operating companies	An accountable business outcome or Command
NerdCommand Foundry	The factory that manufactures industry-specific operating systems	A production-ready Foundry Pack
Business Genome	The reusable asset library behind the factory	A governed software or business capability

Deckbrief should become one of the first capabilities placed into the Business Genome.

Comparing the ideas
Dimension	Deckbrief as a standalone company	NerdCommand Foundry	Integrated approach
Problem clarity	Very clear: founders dislike producing updates	Broader and harder to explain without a specific vertical	Clear entry product connected to a larger platform
Speed to market	Fastest, especially if already functional	Slowest because the Foundry requires architecture, modules, licensing, deployment, and support systems	Deckbrief can ship while Foundry infrastructure develops
Customer value	Saves reporting and formatting time	Helps launch and operate an entire business	Begins with reporting and expands into operating intelligence
Revenue ceiling	Relatively limited at the current low subscription tiers	Much higher through source licenses, hosting, AI, implementation, and modules	Deckbrief provides recurring revenue and leads into higher-value products
Defensibility	Weak if the product only converts entered metrics into AI text and PDF	Stronger if NerdCommand owns the Genome, module registry, workflows, vertical knowledge, release process, and update system	Deckbrief gains defensibility by using real operational data from NerdCommand OS
Competition	Crowded investor-reporting and fundraising category	More differentiated but also more ambitious	Avoids competing only on AI-generated reports
Technical scope	Contained and manageable	Extremely large	Deckbrief becomes a controlled proving ground for shared modules
Strategic role	Useful product, but too narrow to define NerdCommand	Correct long-term vision	Best overall strategy
My conclusion

The strongest route is the integrated approach.

Deckbrief alone is easier to build and sell, but it is not a large enough strategic foundation for everything NerdCommand is becoming.

Foundry alone has the largest opportunity, but building the complete factory before releasing anything creates serious scope risk.

The integrated approach gives NerdCommand:

An existing product to examine and potentially commercialize.
A real application from which to extract reusable modules.
A test case for the Business Genome.
A reporting engine that NerdCommand OS needs internally.
A practical demonstration of the Foundry manufacturing process.
A route to early revenue while larger Foundry Packs are developed.
Why Deckbrief is not enough by itself

The current public Deckbrief/BoardBrief proposition is approximately:

Enter company metrics
        ↓
Enter highlights, challenges, and asks
        ↓
AI writes a narrative
        ↓
Generate a formatted PDF
        ↓
Founder sends it to investors

That solves a real problem. However, current competitors already offer larger connected systems.

Visible combines investor updates with fundraising pipelines, pitch-deck sharing, data rooms, metrics, and investor relationship management.

Standard Metrics goes further into structured and auditable performance data, accounting integrations, portfolio reporting, benchmarking, AI analysis, and investor workflows.

Papermark provides secure pitch-deck and data-room sharing with investor-engagement analytics.

My inference is that AI-generated investor-update text and PDF export alone will be difficult to defend. A larger competitor can add those features, and a founder can approximate parts of the workflow with a general AI assistant and a document template.

Deckbrief becomes more defensible when it stops depending entirely on manually entered information and starts receiving verified operational data from NerdCommand OS.

The stronger workflow is:

NerdCommand OS records real company activity
        ↓
Metrics, Commands, incidents, decisions, and outcomes are connected
        ↓
Deckbrief detects meaningful changes
        ↓
AI prepares the operating narrative
        ↓
Human reviews facts and approves publication
        ↓
Board, investor, client, or executive brief is distributed
        ↓
Responses and resulting actions become new Commands

That is no longer just document generation. It is an operational intelligence and communication system.

The correct role for Deckbrief

Deckbrief should have three roles.

1. Existing focused product

Deckbrief can remain a standalone application for founders who need investor and board updates.

The transitional branding should be:

Deckbrief by NerdCommand

That gives the product a clear identity while connecting it to the parent company.

The current public presentation appears to alternate between the Deckbrief domain and BoardBrief product name. One name should be selected and used consistently across the repository, interface, documentation, subscriptions, metadata, and marketing.

My recommendation is:

Deckbrief — customer-facing application.
Command Brief Engine — reusable internal capability.
NerdCommand — parent company.
Founder and Board Operations — eventual Foundry Pack category.
2. Reusable Business Genome capability

Deckbrief should be generalized into a reporting and briefing module that can generate more than investor updates.

The same engine should eventually support:

Daily executive Command Briefs.
Weekly company operating reviews.
Monthly investor updates.
Quarterly board packs.
Client implementation reports.
Project health reports.
Sales pipeline briefs.
Product release reports.
Incident and postmortem reports.
Financial and collection summaries.
Foundry Pack performance reports.

That makes Deckbrief valuable across almost every NerdCommand product.

3. Foundry Product Zero

Deckbrief should be treated as Foundry Product Zero.

It is not necessarily the first full “business in a box.” Instead, it is the existing product NerdCommand uses to prove that the Foundry can:

Inspect an existing application.
identify reusable capabilities;
separate generic modules from product-specific logic;
standardize deployment;
establish tests and release gates;
generate documentation;
package the product;
maintain a safe update path; and
reuse the extracted modules in another product.

The first true industry operating-system family can still be:

Local Service Company OS

with:

Residential Cleaning Company OS

as its first vertical edition.

What should be extracted from Deckbrief

The code must be examined before declaring any component reusable, but conceptually Deckbrief should contain several valuable Genome candidates.

Deckbrief capability	Foundry destination
User authentication	Identity module
Company profiles	Organizations and Workspaces module
Team access	Membership and Roles module
SaaS metrics	Configurable Metrics Registry
Current and previous period comparisons	Time-Series and Variance Engine
AI executive-summary generation	AI Narrative Composer
Highlights, challenges, and asks	Structured Brief Sections
PDF export	Document Rendering Engine
Custom branding	Theme and Brand System
Saved update history	Versioned Brief Repository
Subscription plans	Billing and Entitlements module
Slack notifications	Notification Adapter
Company dashboard	Operating Brief Dashboard
Report templates	Template Registry
AI prompts	Versioned Prompt and Evaluation Registry

The important word is extract.

Do not copy the current application wholesale into every Foundry product.

The generic Command Brief Engine

Deckbrief’s reusable domain model should eventually look approximately like this:

Organization
├── Reporting Calendars
├── Metric Definitions
│   └── Metric Values
├── Reporting Periods
├── Brief Templates
│   ├── Section Definitions
│   ├── Required Evidence
│   └── Approval Rules
├── Brief Runs
│   ├── Data Snapshots
│   ├── AI Drafts
│   ├── Human Edits
│   ├── Approvals
│   └── Exports
├── Recipients
├── Distribution Events
└── Resulting Commands

Core entities should include:

MetricDefinition
MetricValue
ReportingPeriod
BriefTemplate
BriefRun
BriefSection
NarrativeDraft
EvidenceReference
Approval
Export
Recipient
DeliveryEvent
FollowUpCommand

This architecture would allow the same engine to produce an investor update for a software startup and a weekly owner report for a cleaning business.

What must be changed in Deckbrief

Assuming the existing application is centered on SaaS founder reporting, several parts should become configurable.

Hard-coded metrics must become a metric registry

MRR, ARR, churn, burn, runway, NRR, customers, and headcount are appropriate for SaaS businesses. They are not universal.

A cleaning business might need:

Leads.
Estimates.
Bookings.
Average job value.
Recurring customers.
Crew utilization.
Travel time.
Re-cleans.
Customer ratings.
Collected revenue.

The platform therefore needs configurable metric definitions, formulas, units, reporting frequency, ownership, source, and validation rules.

A single AI prompt must become a template system

Instead of one “write a SaaS investor update” prompt, the system should support:

Template
├── Intended audience
├── Required sections
├── Required metrics
├── Narrative instructions
├── Tone and length
├── Policy requirements
├── Approval rules
├── Evidence requirements
└── Output formats
Direct AI-provider calls must become an AI gateway

Deckbrief should not remain tightly coupled to one model provider.

The reusable AI layer should control:

Approved providers and models.
Prompt versions.
Token and cost budgets.
Sensitive-data handling.
Retries and fallbacks.
Structured outputs.
Factuality checks.
Human approval.
Evaluation results.
Complete execution history.
PDF generation must become multi-format publishing

The long-term engine should support:

Web view.
PDF.
Email.
Markdown.
Structured JSON.
Presentation export.
Customer portal.
API delivery.
Reporting must create actions

A report that identifies a problem should not stop at describing the problem.

For example:

Deckbrief identifies:
“Customer churn increased from 3% to 5%”
        ↓
NerdCommand OS creates:
“Investigate churn increase”
        ↓
Owner:
Customer Success Lead
        ↓
Due date:
Friday
        ↓
Evidence:
Cancellation reasons and cohort analysis
        ↓
Outcome:
Process change or documented decision

This closes the loop between reporting and execution.

What should remain product-specific

Not everything in Deckbrief should become a universal module.

These elements may remain part of the Deckbrief application:

SaaS founder onboarding.
Investor-update terminology.
Board-report design.
SaaS metric presets.
Founder-specific AI instructions.
Investor asks.
Monthly reporting cadence.
Founder-oriented education and SEO content.
Product-specific pricing.
Its focused landing page.

The Foundry principle is not “make everything generic.”

The principle is:

Make the reusable foundation generic and keep the customer experience specific.

Build, extract, rewrite, or scrap

There are four possible technical outcomes after the repository audit.

Outcome 1: Reuse as a foundation

This is appropriate only if Deckbrief has:

A clean and documented build.
Database migrations.
Secure authentication.
Proper organization and tenant separation.
Clear API and application boundaries.
A maintainable data model.
Automated tests.
Versioned AI prompts.
Docker or reproducible deployment.
Safe secret handling.
Current dependencies.
A reusable rendering system.
No serious licensing or security issues.
Outcome 2: Extract selected components

This is the most likely outcome.

The product may have valuable:

User experience.
Metric forms.
AI prompting.
PDF renderer.
Templates.
Branding system.
Subscription logic.
Content.

But its architecture may be too product-specific to become the NerdCommand OS foundation.

In that case, the useful capabilities should be extracted into new modules while the existing Deckbrief application is gradually migrated onto them.

Outcome 3: Preserve the concept and rewrite the code

A rewrite is appropriate when:

The application cannot be reproduced from a clean environment.
The database structure is undocumented or inconsistent.
Authentication or tenant isolation is unsafe.
Business logic is embedded throughout UI components.
AI calls are scattered across the codebase.
There are no tests around critical workflows.
Dependencies are severely outdated.
Secrets or production credentials are committed.
The rendering engine is inseparable from one report format.
Refactoring would cost more than rebuilding the narrow product correctly.

A code rewrite would not mean the idea failed. It would mean the current implementation is not the right foundation.

Outcome 4: Retire Deckbrief entirely

Retirement should occur only if all of the following are true:

The code provides no meaningful reusable capabilities.
The public product has no material users, revenue, content value, or market traction.
The reporting workflow does not support NerdCommand’s operating model.
Rebuilding the useful functionality is easier than maintaining the existing product.
The Deckbrief brand creates more confusion than value.

Based on the concept alone, I would not choose this outcome.

Recommended product architecture
NERDCOMMAND FOUNDRY
│
├── Business Genome Registry
├── Architect AI
├── Software Planner
├── Genome Resolver
├── Repository Composer
├── Verification Pipeline
└── Foundry Packs
    ├── Founder and Board Operations
    │   └── Deckbrief
    └── Local Service Company OS
        └── Residential Cleaning Company OS

NERDCOMMAND OS
│
├── Organizations and Identity
├── Commands and Workflows
├── Processes and Policies
├── Metrics and Signals
├── Decisions and Approvals
├── AI Gateway
├── Document and Knowledge System
└── Command Brief Engine
    ├── Executive Brief
    ├── Board Brief
    ├── Investor Update
    ├── Client Report
    └── Operational Review
Strategic positioning of each product
NerdCommand Foundry

Builds production-ready business operating systems.

NerdCommand OS

Runs and governs the business.

Deckbrief

Turns operational truth into clear, actionable business briefings.

That last phrase is much stronger than:

“AI generates a nice PDF.”

Deckbrief’s expansion path

Deckbrief should expand carefully rather than becoming another oversized fundraising platform.

Deckbrief Core
Enter or import metrics.
Capture highlights, challenges, decisions, and asks.
Generate a factual AI draft.
Review and approve.
Publish and export.
Preserve history.
Deckbrief Connected
Accounting and payment integrations.
CRM and pipeline data.
Product and support metrics.
Git and project-delivery signals.
Metric provenance.
Scheduled reporting.
Variance alerts.
Deckbrief Command
Convert challenges into Commands.
Track previous commitments.
Detect missed goals.
Record decisions.
Assign follow-up actions.
Monitor whether stated plans were completed.
Generate executive and board views from the same underlying records.
Deckbrief Foundry Module
Configurable industry metrics.
Configurable report templates.
White-label branding.
API access.
Embeddable dashboards.
Multi-format output.
Pack-specific workflows.
Source-included licensing where appropriate.
Final comparison

The original Deckbrief idea asks:

How can we make business reporting fast and professional?

NerdCommand OS asks:

How can we make the company’s work governed, accountable, measurable, and visible?

NerdCommand Foundry asks:

How can we manufacture complete operating systems for many kinds of businesses?

The winning structure combines all three:

Foundry manufactures the system
        ↓
NerdCommand OS operates the system
        ↓
Deckbrief explains what the system is doing
        ↓
Commands address what must happen next
Final verdict

Keep the Deckbrief concept.

Do not let the existing Deckbrief code dictate the entire NerdCommand architecture.

Extract Deckbrief’s metric, AI narrative, document-generation, reporting-history, branding, and subscription capabilities into the Business Genome.

Use Deckbrief as Foundry Product Zero and as the first implementation of the Command Brief Engine.

Scrap or rewrite only the parts of its code that fail the repository audit.

The governing decision is:

Deckbrief is a product and a reusable capability. NerdCommand OS is the platform. NerdCommand Foundry is the business.

A repository ZIP or authenticated read access is required for the next verdict: exactly which Deckbrief files and components should be kept, refactored, rewritten, or removed.

Yesterday 6:47 PM
 ok can you build me a full NERDCOMMAND.Com software company build plan and also build me a full modulare version controlled step by step build for the full nerdcommand business operating system and a section by section build plan with instructions on how the website will be built and updated as we  add features to the program and also build the nerdcommand business plans after all this is built 
Yesterday 8:05 PM
resume
Analysis paused
Thought for 11m 54s
NerdCommand Master Build Plan v1.0

Boss man, this plan consolidates the complete direction we established:

NerdCommand is the software company.
NerdCommand.com is the public face, storefront, sales system, documentation center, and customer entry point.
NerdCommand OS is the operating platform that runs NerdCommand and powers customer business systems.
NerdCommand Foundry manufactures industry-specific business operating systems.
The Business Genome contains the reusable modules, workflows, policies, agents, playbooks, and deployment assets.
NerdCommand Architect AI designs new business systems and orchestrates specialized Foundry agents.
NerdCommand Cloud provides hosting, updates, monitoring, AI usage, backups, and support.
Deckbrief remains a focused product and becomes the reusable Command Brief Engine inside NerdCommand OS.
Foundry Packs are the source-included business operating systems sold to customers.

I have not yet inspected the Deckbrief source code because the SSH repository is not readable from this environment. Therefore, every Deckbrief technical decision below remains subject to the mandatory repository audit in Release 0.

Part I — Company Strategy
1. Company mission

NerdCommand manufactures source-included, AI-enabled business operating systems that help entrepreneurs and operators launch, manage, and improve real businesses.

2. Company vision

Become the software foundry that can convert a validated business model into a secure, documented, deployable operating platform using reusable software and business components.

3. The central company thesis

Most companies sell one of four things:

Existing model	Limitation
Horizontal SaaS	Generic software that customers must configure themselves
Vertical SaaS	Industry-specific software without source ownership or deep customization
Code templates	Source code without operating procedures, support, or an update system
Development agencies	Custom software that is expensive, slow, and difficult to repeat

NerdCommand combines the strongest parts of all four:

Source code + managed cloud + business workflows + AI agents + deployment + documentation + updates + customization.

The company should not promise that purchasing a Foundry Pack guarantees a profitable business. It should promise that the customer receives a serious operating platform designed around how that kind of company works.

4. Public positioning
Parent company

Put your business under command.

NerdCommand Foundry

From business idea to operating system.

NerdCommand OS

Run the work. Govern the AI. Measure the outcome.

Deckbrief

Turn operational truth into actionable business briefings.

5. Strategic rules
NerdCommand is software-first, not agency-first.
Services exist to implement and extend the platform.
NerdCommand must operate through NerdCommand OS before selling it broadly.
One shared architecture must support many vertical products.
Each vertical product must remain specific to its customer.
Reusable modules must be versioned—not copied and abandoned.
AI may prepare and execute controlled work, but humans remain accountable.
Every meaningful business action must be observable and auditable.
Every release must have an update and rollback path.
No product may be marketed as guaranteed income or automatic business success.

The last rule is important. The FTC has repeatedly taken action against sellers that combine AI language with unsupported income or business-opportunity promises. Earnings claims require substantiation, and the legal treatment of an offer depends on how it is marketed and structured.

Part II — Company and Product Architecture
6. Brand and system structure
NERDCOMMAND
Parent software company
│
├── NerdCommand.com
│   ├── Corporate website
│   ├── Foundry Pack catalog
│   ├── Architect AI
│   ├── Sales and checkout
│   ├── Documentation
│   ├── Customer portal
│   └── Trust and release center
│
├── NerdCommand OS
│   ├── Command Center
│   ├── Company operations
│   ├── Customer lifecycle
│   ├── Product development
│   ├── Knowledge and decisions
│   ├── AI governance
│   └── Metrics and reporting
│
├── NerdCommand Foundry
│   ├── Industry research
│   ├── Business system design
│   ├── Product planning
│   ├── Genome resolution
│   ├── Repository composition
│   ├── Verification
│   └── Product release
│
├── Business Genome
│   ├── Software modules
│   ├── Data models
│   ├── Workflows
│   ├── Policies
│   ├── AI agents
│   ├── Playbooks
│   └── Product recipes
│
├── NerdCommand Cloud
│   ├── Hosting
│   ├── Backups
│   ├── Monitoring
│   ├── Updates
│   ├── AI services
│   └── Support
│
├── Deckbrief
│   └── Command Brief Engine
│
└── Foundry Packs
    ├── Local Service Company OS
    │   ├── Residential Cleaning OS
    │   ├── Lawn Care OS
    │   ├── Mobile Detailing OS
    │   └── Pressure Washing OS
    │
    ├── Founder and Board Operations
    │   └── Deckbrief
    │
    └── Future product families
7. Initial customer strategy

NerdCommand may eventually serve both new founders and existing businesses, but the first paying design partners should primarily be existing operators.

Primary initial customer

An established local-service company that:

Already has customers or demonstrated demand.
Uses disconnected tools.
Has recurring workflows.
Loses time during marketing, sales, scheduling, delivery, billing, and follow-up.
Needs better operating visibility.
Wants to own or control more of its software.
Is willing to participate in product development.
Secondary customer

An experienced founder launching a new company who understands that software does not replace sales, operations, licensing, insurance, or professional advice.

Partner customer

Agencies, consultants, developers, and business coaches who want to configure and deploy Foundry Packs for their own customers.

This order gives NerdCommand real operational data and paying users before it tries to serve large numbers of first-time business owners.

8. Initial offer ladder
Offer	Purpose	Revenue type
Architect Session	Capture the business idea or existing operating problem	Free or low-cost acquisition
Command Audit	Examine workflows, tools, risks, and opportunities	Paid diagnostic
Business System Blueprint	Produce the process map, system architecture, and implementation plan	One-time
Foundry Pack License	Provide the source-included operating system	One-time license
NerdCommand Cloud	Host and operate the platform	Recurring
Foundry Updates	Provide security, compatibility, workflow, and module updates	Recurring
Command Implementation	Configure, migrate, integrate, and launch	Project revenue
Managed Command Operations	Monitor and improve the operating system	Recurring services
Partner License	Permit agencies and consultants to deploy systems for clients	Annual or recurring
Enterprise License	Private modules, environments, governance, and deployment rights	Contracted
Part III — NerdCommand OS Product Definition
9. Official product definition

NerdCommand OS is an AI-enabled company operating system that connects strategy, customers, people, processes, policies, data, applications, and AI into one governed command structure.

Its job is to:

Detect business signals.
Convert signals into decisions.
Convert decisions into accountable work.
Check permissions and policies.
Coordinate humans, software, and AI.
Collect evidence.
Measure outcomes.
Improve future operations.
10. The central object: a Command

A normal task is insufficient for a business operating system.

A Command must include:

Field	Purpose
Outcome	What must be true when the Command is complete
Owner	One accountable human
Participants	People or agents supporting the work
Source	Person, event, process, metric, or integration that created it
Context	Customer, opportunity, project, product, incident, or objective
Process	Governing workflow or procedure
Policies	Rules and controls that apply
Priority	Operational importance
Due date	Expected completion
Status	Current execution state
Next action	Exact next step
Approval requirement	Whether execution or completion requires authorization
AI permission	What AI may view, prepare, recommend, or execute
Evidence	Documents, events, messages, screenshots, or system records
Cost and effort	Resources consumed
Result	Final outcome
Audit history	Complete record of changes and actions

Recommended status model:

Draft
→ Ready
→ Active
→ Waiting
→ Waiting for Approval
→ Blocked
→ Completed
→ Cancelled
11. The Command Loop
SENSE
A user, website, metric, application, customer, or AI detects a signal
    ↓
INTERPRET
The system connects the signal to the correct business context
    ↓
DECIDE
A person, rule, or authorized AI determines the next action
    ↓
AUTHORIZE
Permissions, policies, budgets, and approval thresholds are checked
    ↓
EXECUTE
A person, workflow, integration, or AI completes the work
    ↓
VERIFY
The platform collects evidence and confirms the outcome
    ↓
LEARN
Metrics and results improve future processes and decisions
12. Main NerdCommand OS workspaces
Executive Command Center
Company priorities.
Qualified pipeline.
Recurring revenue.
Delivery health.
Customer health.
Cash and collections indicators.
Product reliability.
AI activity and cost.
Risks and incidents.
Pending executive approvals.
Daily Command Brief.
My Command Center
Commands owned by the user.
Due and overdue work.
Approvals.
Blockers.
Team requests.
Relevant metrics.
AI recommendations.
Recent decisions.
Revenue Command
Leads.
Contacts.
Companies.
Opportunities.
Command Audits.
Proposals.
Contracts.
Payments.
Renewals.
Attribution.
Client Command
Customer workspaces.
Onboarding.
Projects.
Deliverables.
Files.
Support cases.
Customer health.
Success plans.
Renewals.
Process Command
Value streams.
Process definitions.
SOPs.
Checklists.
Workflow templates.
Process owners.
Version history.
Process metrics.
Improvement proposals.
Governance Command
Policies.
Approval rules.
Spending authority.
Pricing limits.
AI permissions.
Data classifications.
Exceptions.
Risks.
Incidents.
Audit evidence.
Product Command
Product strategy.
Roadmap.
Requirements.
Engineering work.
Releases.
Bugs.
Security findings.
Service health.
Customer feedback.
Knowledge Command
Documentation.
Decisions.
Research.
Customer knowledge.
Templates.
Meeting outcomes.
Technical architecture.
Lessons learned.
Foundry Command
Foundry projects.
Industry dossiers.
Business blueprints.
Genome modules.
Product recipes.
Product builds.
Verification results.
Releases.
Licenses.
Update compatibility.
Part IV — Technical Architecture
13. Architecture decision

Start with a modular monolith, not microservices.

The platform should be one understandable deployment with strongly separated modules. Modules may later become separate services only when scale, security, release independence, or operational evidence justifies it.

14. Reference technology stack

This is the recommended default unless the Deckbrief audit proves that its current stack is strong enough to preserve.

Layer	Recommended direction
Language	TypeScript for primary product services
Public website	Next.js
Internal application	React/Next.js
API application	NestJS with a high-performance HTTP adapter
Database	PostgreSQL
Cache and queue	Redis where required
Object storage	S3-compatible storage
API contract	OpenAPI
Background execution	Queue workers plus durable database workflow state
Search	PostgreSQL search initially; dedicated search later if justified
Infrastructure	Docker for every deployment
Infrastructure as code	OpenTofu or Terraform
CI/CD	GitHub Actions
Telemetry	OpenTelemetry
Local development	Docker Compose and one-command setup
Production environments	Container-based managed deployment
AI providers	Accessed only through the NerdCommand AI Gateway

OpenAPI provides a language-neutral interface description that can power documentation, testing, and generated clients.

OpenTelemetry should be used for vendor-neutral traces, metrics, and logs across the website, API, workers, integrations, and AI activity.

15. Software planes
EXPERIENCE PLANE
Website • Customer Portal • Command Center • Documentation
                         │
COMMAND PLANE
Commands • Processes • Projects • Cases • Approvals • Decisions
                         │
AUTOMATION PLANE
Workers • Workflows • Integrations • Notifications • AI Agents
                         │
DATA AND KNOWLEDGE PLANE
Operational Data • Events • Documents • Metrics • Search
                         │
TRUST AND OBSERVABILITY PLANE
Identity • Permissions • Security • Audit • Logs • Monitoring
16. Proposed repository structure
nerdcommand/
├── apps/
│   ├── website/
│   ├── command-center/
│   ├── customer-portal/
│   ├── api/
│   ├── worker/
│   └── docs/
│
├── modules/
│   ├── kernel/
│   ├── identity/
│   ├── organizations/
│   ├── permissions/
│   ├── audit/
│   ├── commands/
│   ├── processes/
│   ├── policies/
│   ├── approvals/
│   ├── metrics/
│   ├── crm/
│   ├── revenue/
│   ├── delivery/
│   ├── support/
│   ├── billing/
│   ├── knowledge/
│   ├── brief-engine/
│   ├── ai-gateway/
│   ├── agents/
│   ├── integrations/
│   ├── genome-registry/
│   ├── product-recipes/
│   ├── foundry-builds/
│   └── licensing/
│
├── packages/
│   ├── design-system/
│   ├── api-contracts/
│   ├── event-contracts/
│   ├── sdk/
│   ├── configuration/
│   ├── testing/
│   └── telemetry/
│
├── foundry/
│   ├── genome/
│   ├── recipes/
│   ├── verticals/
│   ├── agents/
│   ├── prompts/
│   ├── policies/
│   └── templates/
│
├── infrastructure/
│   ├── docker/
│   ├── environments/
│   ├── provisioning/
│   ├── monitoring/
│   └── backups/
│
├── docs/
│   ├── architecture/
│   ├── adr/
│   ├── rfc/
│   ├── product/
│   ├── security/
│   ├── runbooks/
│   ├── legal/
│   └── operations/
│
└── .github/
    ├── workflows/
    ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/
    ├── PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md
    └── CODEOWNERS

Generated customer products should normally receive their own repositories. They should be produced from versioned modules and product recipes—not developed as disconnected manual copies.

17. Core data entities

The first canonical data model should include:

Organization
Workspace
User
Membership
Team
Role
Permission
Contact
Company
Opportunity
CommandAudit
Proposal
Contract
Entitlement
Command
CommandDependency
ProcessDefinition
ProcessVersion
ProcessRun
Policy
Control
Approval
Objective
MetricDefinition
MetricValue
Project
Case
Document
Decision
Notification
IntegrationConnection
DomainEvent
AuditEvent
AgentIdentity
AgentPolicy
AgentRun
PromptVersion
BriefTemplate
BriefRun
ModuleDefinition
ModuleVersion
ProductRecipe
ProductBuild
Release
Deployment
License
Subscription
18. Event architecture

All significant business changes should produce versioned domain events.

Example:

{
  "event_id": "evt_123",
  "event_type": "opportunity.qualified.v1",
  "organization_id": "org_456",
  "aggregate_type": "opportunity",
  "aggregate_id": "opp_789",
  "occurred_at": "2026-07-22T15:00:00Z",
  "actor_type": "user",
  "actor_id": "usr_123",
  "correlation_id": "flow_456",
  "causation_id": "evt_100",
  "payload": {
    "qualification_score": 82,
    "recommended_pack": "local-service-cleaning"
  }
}

Use a transactional outbox so that the business record and event are committed together. Workers then deliver events to notifications, integrations, analytics, or workflows.

Part V — Modular Business Genome
19. Module contract

Every reusable module must contain more than source code.

module/
├── module.manifest.yaml
├── README.md
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── LICENSES.md
├── domain/
├── application/
├── api/
├── ui/
├── database/
│   ├── schema/
│   └── migrations/
├── events/
├── permissions/
├── policies/
├── workflows/
├── telemetry/
├── tests/
├── docs/
└── examples/

Example manifest:

name: crm
display_name: Customer Relationship Management
version: 0.4.0
status: beta

capabilities:
  - contacts
  - companies
  - notes
  - tags
  - lifecycle-stages

requires:
  identity: ">=0.2.0 <1.0.0"
  organizations: ">=0.2.0 <1.0.0"
  permissions: ">=0.2.0 <1.0.0"
  audit: ">=0.2.0 <1.0.0"

provides_events:
  - contact.created.v1
  - company.created.v1
  - contact.lifecycle_changed.v1

consumes_events:
  - website.form_submitted.v1

permissions:
  - crm.contact.read
  - crm.contact.create
  - crm.contact.update
  - crm.contact.export

data_classification:
  contains_personal_data: true

release:
  minimum_platform_version: 0.4.0
20. Genome module groups
Platform foundation
Kernel.
Configuration.
Organizations.
Workspaces.
Identity.
Memberships.
Roles.
Permissions.
Feature flags.
Audit history.
Files.
Notifications.
Events.
Search.
Integration registry.
Operating system
Commands.
Process definitions.
Workflow execution.
SOPs.
Policies.
Controls.
Approvals.
Objectives.
Metrics.
Decisions.
Knowledge.
Briefing.
Revenue operations
CRM.
Lead intake.
Qualification.
Command Audits.
Opportunities.
Proposals.
Contracts.
Pricing.
Billing adapters.
Attribution.
Renewals.
Delivery operations
Client workspaces.
Onboarding.
Projects.
Cases.
Checklists.
Files.
Customer portal.
Support.
Customer health.
Success plans.
Product operations
Product catalog.
Requirements.
Roadmaps.
Engineering Commands.
Bugs.
Release management.
Incidents.
Service health.
Customer feedback.
Foundry operations
Business Genome registry.
Industry taxonomy.
Product recipes.
Compatibility resolver.
Repository composer.
Branding generator.
Documentation generator.
Verification pipeline.
Release packaging.
Licensing.
Update management.
Marketplace.
AI capabilities
AI Gateway.
Agent registry.
Prompt registry.
Tool permissions.
Evaluation system.
Architect AI.
Industry Research Agent.
Business Model Agent.
Compliance Mapper.
Software Planner.
Genome Resolver.
Repository Composer.
GitHub Scout.
Profit Optimizer.
Expansion Agent.
Documentation Agent.
Security and QA Agent.
Release Manager.
Part VI — Version Control and Release System
21. Versioning policy

Use Semantic Versioning for:

NerdCommand OS.
Every reusable Genome module.
Every Foundry Pack.
Public API contracts.
Event contracts.
Product recipes.

Semantic Versioning uses MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH: breaking public changes increase the major version, backward-compatible features increase the minor version, and backward-compatible fixes increase the patch version. Released versions must remain immutable.

Examples:

nerdcommand-os@0.6.0
commands@0.4.1
brief-engine@0.2.0
local-service-core@1.0.0
residential-cleaning-pack@1.0.0
22. Release channels
Channel	Audience	Meaning
Internal Alpha	NerdCommand team	Incomplete and actively changing
Design Partner Beta	Selected customers	Supported testing with known limitations
Release Candidate	Launch customers	Feature-complete and undergoing final verification
General Availability	Paying customers	Supported production release
Long-Term Support	Enterprise customers	Maintained release with extended security support
23. Git workflow

Use trunk-based development:

main is protected and releasable.
Feature branches are short-lived.
Every change enters through a pull request.
Every pull request references an issue or RFC.
Required checks must pass before merge.
Releases are created from immutable tags.
No long-lived develop branch.
Hotfixes return to main immediately.

Branch examples:

feat/NCOS-142-command-approvals
fix/NCWEB-091-audit-form-validation
refactor/NCBRF-033-metric-registry
security/NCSEC-017-tenant-isolation
24. Commit convention

Use Conventional Commits:

feat(commands): add policy-gated approval transitions

fix(website): preserve attribution during audit submission

refactor(brief-engine): extract report template registry

security(identity): invalidate sessions after role removal

docs(foundry): document module compatibility rules

Conventional Commits creates machine-readable commit history and supports automated changelogs and semantic releases.

25. Pull-request requirements

Every pull request must answer:

What customer or company outcome does this change support?
Which module owns it?
Is the change backward-compatible?
Are database migrations included?
Are API and event contracts updated?
Are permissions and tenant boundaries tested?
Are telemetry and alerts included?
Are user and developer documents updated?
Does the website need updating?
Is a feature flag required?
What is the rollback procedure?
What security or AI risks were considered?
26. Platform bill of materials

Every NerdCommand OS and Foundry Pack release should include a lockfile:

product: residential-cleaning-os
version: 1.0.0

platform:
  nerdcommand-os: 1.0.0

modules:
  identity: 1.0.1
  organizations: 1.0.0
  crm: 1.1.0
  scheduling: 1.2.0
  recurring-services: 1.0.0
  payments: 1.1.1
  customer-portal: 1.0.0
  brief-engine: 1.0.0

recipe:
  local-service-core: 1.0.0
  residential-cleaning-overlay: 1.0.0

build:
  source_commit: "abc123"
  generated_at: "2026-07-22T15:00:00Z"

Each release should also include:

SPDX software bill of materials.
Third-party notices.
Build provenance.
Checksums.
Container image references.
Database migration list.
Known limitations.
Upgrade instructions.

SPDX is an open standard for communicating component, license, security, and provenance information in software bills of materials.

SLSA provenance is designed to provide verifiable information about where, when, and how software artifacts were produced.

27. Database migration rules

Before version 1.0:

Prefer forward migrations.
Every destructive change must include a data-preservation plan.
Migrations run automatically in test environments.
Production migrations require a backup and verification.

After version 1.0:

Expand — add the new structure without removing the old one.
Migrate — copy and validate data.
Switch — move application behavior to the new structure.
Contract — remove deprecated structure in a later release.

Never introduce a destructive migration and remove application compatibility in the same customer-facing release.

Part VII — Release-by-Release Software Build Plan
Release 0 — Governance and Repository Intake
Version

0.0.1

Objective

Create the technical, legal, product, and operating foundation before adding features.

Build instructions
Establish the NerdCommand GitHub organization.
Create the primary platform repository.
Protect main.
Add issue, RFC, security, and pull-request templates.
Create CODEOWNERS.
Create the architecture-decision-record process.
Create coding, testing, release, and documentation standards.
Establish secrets-management policy.
Define the customer source-code license model.
Define open-source license acceptance policy.
Obtain read access to Deckbrief.
Run the full Deckbrief audit.
Classify every Deckbrief component:
Keep.
Refactor.
Extract.
Rewrite.
Remove.
Confirm the reference stack through an architecture decision.
Create the master product backlog.
Deckbrief audit checklist
Can a new developer install it from the README?
Does it have a clean .env.example?
Are secrets committed?
Are database migrations complete?
What authentication system is used?
Is the application multi-tenant?
Is tenant isolation tested?
Where are AI calls made?
How are prompts managed?
How is PDF generation implemented?
What metrics are hard-coded?
How are subscriptions handled?
Are there unit and end-to-end tests?
Is there Docker configuration?
What dependencies and licenses exist?
Is the deployed product consistent with the repository?
What can become a reusable Genome module?
Exit gate
Clean repository baseline.
Written Deckbrief audit.
Architecture decision approved.
Licensing and security risks recorded.
Build standards accepted.
No production credentials in source control.
Release 1 — Platform Foundation
Version

0.1.0

Objective

Create a deployable NerdCommand platform shell.

Modules
Kernel.
Configuration.
Database.
API shell.
Design system.
Telemetry.
Health checks.
Background worker.
File storage.
CI/CD.
Build instructions
Create monorepo structure.
Create local Docker environment.
Add PostgreSQL.
Add API service.
Add website and application shells.
Add shared design tokens.
Add structured logging.
Add traces and metrics.
Add database migration framework.
Add health and readiness endpoints.
Add development seed data.
Add automatic linting, type checks, and tests.
Add staging deployment.
Add backup and restore scripts.
Add basic runbooks.
Exit gate
One-command local startup.
Staging deployment from main.
Database backup and restoration demonstrated.
Health, logs, metrics, and traces visible.
New developer setup documented.
Release 2 — Identity, Organizations, and Governance Foundation
Version

0.2.0

Objective

Create secure organizational boundaries.

Modules
Identity.
Organizations.
Workspaces.
Memberships.
Teams.
Roles.
Permissions.
Audit.
Feature flags.
Session management.
Build instructions
Implement account registration and login.
Support secure account recovery.
Create organizations and workspaces.
Implement membership invitations.
Define initial roles:
Owner.
Administrator.
Executive.
Manager.
Operator.
Contractor.
Customer.
Read-only.
Implement permission checks at API and UI levels.
Add organization identifiers to all business records.
Create append-only audit events.
Add feature flags by environment and organization.
Add session revocation.
Test tenant isolation.
Add organization export and deletion procedures.
Exit gate
A user can create and administer an organization.
Invitations and role changes work.
One organization cannot access another organization’s data.
All privileged actions appear in audit history.
Permission tests cover every protected API.
Release 3 — Command Operating-System Core
Version

0.3.0

Objective

Make NerdCommand capable of running controlled business work.

Modules
Commands.
Command dependencies.
Process definitions.
Process versions.
Process runs.
Policies.
Approvals.
Notifications.
Domain events.
Recurring Commands.
Evidence.
Build instructions
Implement Command creation and assignment.
Implement status transitions.
Add parent-child Commands.
Add dependencies.
Add due dates, priorities, and service levels.
Add evidence and attachments.
Create process templates.
Start processes from users, schedules, or events.
Create policy checks.
Add approval thresholds.
Add recurring Commands.
Add inbox and notification center.
Add My Command Center.
Add operational dashboard.
Add complete transition history.
Add blocked-work reporting.
Initial demonstration workflow
New request
→ Triage Command
→ Qualification
→ Manager approval
→ Assigned work
→ Evidence review
→ Completion
Exit gate
A process can create and coordinate multiple Commands.
Approval rules can prevent unauthorized execution.
Every transition is auditable.
A manager can see ownership, blockers, and overdue work.
Failed event processing is retryable.
Release 4 — NerdCommand.com Website and Lead Intake
Version

0.4.0

Objective

Launch the public website as a true operating surface.

Modules
Public website.
Content registry.
Feature registry.
Forms.
Consent.
Attribution.
CRM intake.
Architect intake.
Website event tracking.
Incident monitoring.
Build instructions
Build the shared design system.
Build global navigation and footer.
Build the home page.
Build NerdCommand OS page.
Build Foundry page.
Build Foundry Pack catalog.
Build Architect AI intake.
Build Command Audit form.
Build Company and Contact records.
Capture source, campaign, referrer, and consent.
Match duplicate contacts and companies.
Create lead qualification Commands.
Add form success, loading, retry, and failure states.
Add spam and abuse controls.
Add analytics events.
Add error and availability monitoring.
Build Privacy, Terms, Acceptable Use, and Security pages.
Build documentation and release-note shells.
Exit gate

A website visitor can:

Visit NerdCommand.com
→ Start an Architect session or Command Audit
→ Submit business information
→ Create or match a contact and company
→ Create a lead and qualification Command
→ Notify the responsible NerdCommand owner
→ Receive a confirmation and next-step message
Release 5 — Revenue Operating System
Version

0.5.0

Objective

Run the entire NerdCommand sales process through NerdCommand OS.

Modules
Contacts.
Companies.
Leads.
Opportunities.
Qualification.
Command Audits.
Product recommendations.
Proposals.
Pricing.
Contracts.
Payments.
Attribution.
Sales reporting.
Build instructions
Create configurable lead stages.
Create qualification scoring.
Connect Architect output to opportunities.
Create Command Audit templates.
Generate Business System Blueprints.
Create proposal templates.
Add pricing and discount policies.
Require approval above specified thresholds.
Integrate e-signature.
Integrate payment and subscription services.
Track acquisition source through purchase.
Create sales forecast.
Create conversion and response-time metrics.
Create lost-opportunity reasons.
Create renewal and expansion records.
Exit gate
Lead
→ Qualified opportunity
→ Command Audit
→ Recommended Foundry Pack
→ Proposal
→ Approval
→ Contract
→ Payment
→ Customer

must work from beginning to end.

Release 6 — Delivery and Customer Portal
Version

0.6.0

Objective

Move sold customers into controlled implementation and support.

Modules
Customer workspace.
Onboarding.
Projects.
Milestones.
Deliverables.
Customer portal.
Cases.
Support.
Billing status.
Customer health.
Success plans.
Build instructions
Automatically create a customer workspace after a sale.
Create onboarding templates by product.
Create project milestones.
Add customer-visible status.
Add secure file exchange.
Add comments and approvals.
Add implementation checklists.
Add customer support intake.
Add case priorities and escalation.
Add customer health signals.
Add product activation tracking.
Add invoices and payment-status synchronization.
Add renewal preparation.
Add customer outcome reviews.
Exit gate
A closed sale creates the correct workspace and implementation project.
The customer can see progress without internal-only information.
Support requests enter the correct queue.
Leadership can see project and customer risk.
Renewal Commands are created automatically.
Release 7 — Deckbrief and Command Brief Engine
Version

0.7.0

Objective

Convert Deckbrief into a reusable, trustworthy reporting capability.

Decision path

After the Release 0 audit:

Result	Action
Strong architecture	Refactor Deckbrief onto NerdCommand modules
Valuable components, weak application structure	Extract components and progressively migrate
Weak code, strong product concept	Rewrite the engine while preserving product knowledge
No reusable value or users	Retire standalone code but preserve useful workflows
Reusable capabilities to build
Metric registry.
Metric values and periods.
Brief templates.
Brief sections.
Data snapshots.
AI narrative generation.
Evidence references.
Human review.
Approval.
PDF and web export.
Version history.
Distribution.
Follow-up Commands.
Build instructions
Remove hard-coded SaaS metrics from the reusable engine.
Create configurable metric definitions.
Separate report templates from application code.
Route all AI generation through the AI Gateway.
Require evidence references for generated statements.
Store the exact data snapshot used for each brief.
Preserve AI draft, human edits, and final approval.
Support PDF, web, email, Markdown, and JSON output.
Convert identified problems into Commands.
Create an Executive Command Brief template.
Create a Weekly Operating Review template.
Create an Investor Update template.
Create a Customer Implementation Report template.
Migrate or rebuild the standalone Deckbrief experience.
Exit gate

The same engine can produce:

A NerdCommand executive report.
A Deckbrief investor update.
A customer implementation report.

Each report must be generated from versioned data, reviewed by a human, and connected to follow-up Commands.

Release 8 — AI Gateway and Agent Governance
Version

0.8.0

Objective

Create a controlled AI layer before introducing powerful Foundry agents.

Modules
Provider registry.
Model registry.
Prompt registry.
Agent identities.
Tool permissions.
Data permissions.
Budgets.
Evaluations.
Human approvals.
AI activity logs.
Kill switches.
Agent record

Every agent must include:

Name
Purpose
Human owner
Approved tasks
Approved models
Allowed data
Allowed tools
Prohibited actions
Risk classification
Required approvals
Prompt version
Evaluation suite
Cost limit
Execution history
Escalation procedure
Kill switch
Risk levels
Level	Example	Required control
Low	Summarize approved internal text	Logged automatic execution
Moderate	Draft a proposal	Human review before external use
High	Change price, send payment request, modify access	Explicit approval
Prohibited initially	Employment decisions, uncontrolled financial transfers, autonomous production releases	No autonomous execution
Build instructions
Route all model calls through one gateway.
Version prompts and system instructions.
Log provider, model, inputs, outputs, cost, and latency.
Redact or block sensitive information.
Add structured-output validation.
Add fallback and retry policies.
Add model evaluation datasets.
Add human acceptance and correction tracking.
Add organization-level AI budgets.
Add agent-specific tool permissions.
Add emergency disable controls.
Build the first controlled Architect AI.

The NIST AI Risk Management Framework is intended to help organizations incorporate trustworthiness and risk management into AI design, development, use, and evaluation.

Exit gate
AI calls are attributable and auditable.
Agents cannot access unapproved tools or data.
High-impact actions require human approval.
Model and prompt versions can be reproduced.
Cost and correction rates are measurable.
Release 9 — Business Genome and Foundry Core
Version

0.9.0

Objective

Turn the software platform into a product-manufacturing system.

Modules
Genome registry.
Capability graph.
Module registry.
Product recipes.
Compatibility resolver.
Repository composer.
Documentation generator.
Branding system.
Build verification.
SBOM and provenance.
Source package generator.
License generator.
Build instructions
Define the Business Genome schema.
Register every reusable module.
Define dependencies and conflicts.
Create module compatibility rules.
Create product-family recipes.
Create vertical overlays.
Generate application configuration.
Generate database migrations.
Generate API and event documentation.
Generate user and deployment documentation.
Create branding configuration.
Create reproducible source repositories.
Produce containers.
Produce SBOM and third-party notices.
Produce release checksums and provenance.
Run release verification automatically.
Require human product, engineering, security, and licensing approval.
Exit gate

The Foundry must generate at least two different test products using a shared core and different recipes, and both products must be reproducible from their manifests and lockfiles.

Release 10 — First Vertical Foundry Pack
Version

1.0.0-rc.1

Product family

Local Service Company OS

First vertical

Residential Cleaning Company OS

Shared Local Service modules
Leads.
Estimates.
Scheduling.
Recurring services.
Crews.
Service areas.
Jobs.
Checklists.
Customer notifications.
Before-and-after evidence.
Payments.
Reviews.
Customer portal.
Operations dashboard.
Residential Cleaning overlay
Property profiles.
Room counts.
Cleaning packages.
Frequency options.
Add-on services.
Supply requirements.
Cleaner instructions.
Arrival and access information.
Inspection checklist.
Re-clean process.
Recurring-plan management.
Required workflows
Lead-to-Estimate
Estimate-to-Booking
Booking-to-Service
Service-to-Payment
Payment-to-Review
Customer-to-Recurring-Plan
Issue-to-Reclean
Crew-Onboarding-to-Assignment
Exit gate

A design partner must complete the core business lifecycle using the release candidate:

Lead
→ Estimate
→ Booking
→ Assignment
→ Service
→ Evidence
→ Payment
→ Review
→ Recurring service

The release candidate must also pass clean installation, upgrade, backup restoration, tenant isolation, permission, and critical workflow tests.

Release 11 — NerdCommand OS General Availability
Version

1.0.0

Objective

Release a supported production platform.

Required completion
Final website.
Pricing and licenses.
Customer onboarding.
Production support procedures.
Security verification.
Backup and recovery.
Status page.
Trust center.
Versioned documentation.
Release notes.
Customer update process.
Incident response.
Source package delivery.
Cloud deployment.
Deckbrief integration.
First Foundry Pack.
Paid design-partner evidence.
Exit gate

A paying customer can:

Select a Foundry Pack.
Execute a license agreement.
Receive or access source code.
Deploy through NerdCommand Cloud or approved self-hosting.
Complete onboarding.
Operate the primary business workflow.
Receive updates.
Open a support case.
Restore from backup.
View product and operational health.
Release 12 and Beyond — Scale
Versions

1.1.0+

Expansion order
Second Local Service vertical.
Product update manager.
Partner portal.
White-label controls.
Marketplace.
Module submission and review.
Additional product families.
Advanced Architect AI.
Customer-specific repository upgrades.
Enterprise governance.

Do not open the marketplace until compatibility, licensing, security review, updates, and support responsibilities are proven.

Part VIII — NerdCommand.com Website Build Plan
28. Domain structure

Recommended initial domains:

Domain	Purpose
nerdcommand.com	Public company website and catalog
app.nerdcommand.com	NerdCommand OS and customer portal
api.nerdcommand.com	Public and internal API gateway
docs.nerdcommand.com	Versioned documentation
status.nerdcommand.com	Service status
deckbrief.com	Deckbrief product, presented as “by NerdCommand”

Keep Foundry inside the main site initially instead of creating unnecessary subdomains.

29. Main navigation
Platform
Foundry
Foundry Packs
Deckbrief
Services
Pricing
Partners
Resources
Company

Right-side actions:

Login
Design My Business System
30. Home page
Section 1 — Header

Purpose:

Explain the product categories.
Provide direct access to Architect AI.
Provide customer login.
Remain consistent throughout the site.
Section 2 — Hero

Headline:

Launch with a business operating system—not a blank template.

Supporting text:

NerdCommand Foundry combines source code, workflows, AI agents, deployment, and operating tools into systems designed for specific kinds of businesses.

Primary action:

Design My Business System

Secondary action:

Explore Foundry Packs

Section 3 — Product-family selector

Show:

Local Service Company OS.
Founder and Board Operations.
Future categories only after they enter beta.

Each card should display:

Intended customer.
Main outcome.
Included core capabilities.
Release status.
Deployment options.
Starting price or “Request Blueprint.”
Section 4 — The problem

Explain that most businesses assemble:

A website.
CRM.
scheduling.
payments.
files.
analytics.
AI tools.
manual procedures.

NerdCommand connects these into a governed operating system.

Section 5 — What a Foundry Pack includes

Use six blocks:

Software.
Deployment.
Business workflows.
Revenue system.
Go-to-market resources.
AI operations.
Section 6 — How the Foundry works
Describe the business
→ Architect creates the blueprint
→ Genome resolves capabilities
→ Foundry assembles the product
→ Verification checks the release
→ Customer launches and operates
Section 7 — Interactive product demonstration

Show a realistic workflow, not a collection of screenshots.

Example:

New cleaning lead
→ Estimate
→ Booking
→ Crew assignment
→ Service checklist
→ Payment
→ Review request
→ Owner Command Brief
Section 8 — Source code and cloud

Explain the choices:

Option	Customer receives
Source license	Versioned source snapshot and deployment rights
NerdCommand Cloud	Hosting, monitoring, updates, backup, AI, and support
Enterprise	Dedicated environment and custom controls
Section 9 — AI with controls

Demonstrate:

Agent purpose.
Human owner.
Allowed actions.
Approval status.
Evidence.
Cost.
Activity history.
Section 10 — Case studies

Do not create fictional testimonials.

Each case study must include:

Starting situation.
Workflow changed.
Modules used.
Time to operational value.
Measured result.
Customer quote with permission.
Limitations.
Section 11 — Trust

Link to:

Security program.
Privacy.
AI governance.
Data ownership.
Backup policy.
Open-source notices.
Availability.
Responsible disclosure.
Section 12 — Pricing

Show products according to release status and approved pricing records.

Section 13 — Final Architect action

Tell Architect what you want to launch or improve.

Section 14 — Footer

Include:

Product links.
Documentation.
Company.
Legal.
Security.
Status.
Contact.
Social and community links.
31. Platform page

Purpose:

Explain NerdCommand OS as the shared operating platform.

Sections:

Product definition.
Command model.
Executive Command Center.
Revenue operations.
Customer delivery.
Processes and policies.
AI governance.
Integrations.
Reporting and Deckbrief.
Deployment and security.
Product roadmap.
Request demonstration.
32. Foundry page

Purpose:

Explain the manufacturing system.

Sections:

Business intent.
Industry research.
Blueprint.
Software planning.
Genome resolution.
Repository composition.
Testing and security.
Documentation.
Licensing.
Deployment.
Updates.
Build a business system.
33. Foundry Pack catalog

Every catalog record should be generated from the product registry.

Fields:

Pack name
Product family
Vertical
Status
Current version
Description
Target customer
Capabilities
Required integrations
Included agents
Deployment options
License options
Documentation
Release notes
Pricing
Demo
Support level

No product should appear as available unless its registry status permits it.

34. Architect AI page

The Architect interface should collect:

Existing or new business.
Industry.
Location.
Customer type.
Offers.
Current tools.
Employees or contractors.
Customer journey.
Main operational problems.
Desired revenue model.
Required integrations.
Budget category.
Deployment preference.
Source-code requirement.
Timeline priority.
Consent.

Architect should then produce:

Business summary.
Problem map.
Recommended value streams.
Required capabilities.
Existing Foundry Pack match.
Missing modules.
Risk questions.
Recommended next step.

Architect must not automatically publish software or provide definitive legal advice.

35. Deckbrief page

Sections:

Founder reporting problem.
Connected operational data.
Metric registry.
AI-assisted narrative.
Human review.
Board and investor formats.
Follow-up Commands.
Pricing.
Product login.
Relationship to NerdCommand OS.
36. Services page

Services should be subordinate to the software.

Offer:

Command Audit.
Operating System Design.
Foundry Implementation.
Custom Module Development.
Data Migration.
Integration.
Managed Command Operations.
Security and AI governance review.
37. Pricing and licensing page

Explain clearly:

Source snapshot rights.
Updates.
Hosting.
AI usage.
Third-party service costs.
Support.
Deployment limits.
Resale restrictions.
Partner rights.
Data ownership.
38. Trust center

Include:

Security overview.
Data classification.
Encryption approach.
Backup and restoration.
Incident response.
Vulnerability reporting.
AI governance.
Subprocessors.
Open-source compliance.
Accessibility.
Release integrity.
Status.

The website and application should target WCAG 2.2 AA. WCAG 2.2 provides testable accessibility criteria and W3C recommends its use for greater future applicability.

Part IX — How the Website Is Updated as Software Features Are Added
39. One capability registry

The website must not be maintained separately from product truth.

Every product capability receives a record:

slug: command-briefs
name: Command Briefs
module: brief-engine
status: beta
introduced_in: 0.7.0
public: true

editions:
  - professional
  - enterprise

description:
  short: Generate governed operating and investor briefings.
  long: >
    Create versioned briefs from verified metrics, decisions,
    incidents and Commands with human approval.

documentation:
  user: /docs/briefs
  api: /docs/api/briefs

website:
  platform_page: true
  show_in_catalog: true
  screenshot: /media/command-briefs-v1.webp

analytics:
  activation_event: brief.approved.v1
40. Feature lifecycle
Proposed
→ Planned
→ In Development
→ Internal Alpha
→ Private Beta
→ Public Beta
→ General Availability
→ Deprecated
→ Retired

Public website rules:

Proposed features do not appear as available.
Planned features may appear only on a clearly labeled roadmap.
Beta features must be labeled.
GA features may appear in pricing and product comparisons.
Deprecated features must display migration information.
Retired features must be removed from sales materials and redirected.
41. Website update procedure for every feature
Create an RFC.
Identify the owning module.
Define the customer outcome.
Define public capability status.
Implement the feature.
Add analytics and telemetry.
Add user documentation.
Add API documentation.
Add screenshots or demo data.
Add pricing or entitlement rules.
Add release notes.
Update the capability record.
Generate a preview deployment.
Run accessibility, security, SEO, and conversion checks.
Receive product and marketing approval.
Merge and tag the release.
Publish the website update.
Monitor errors, usage, and conversion.
Create improvement Commands from results.
42. Required website environments
Environment	Purpose
Local	Developer work
Pull-request preview	Review each change
Staging	Integrated acceptance and content approval
Production	Customer-facing release
43. Website release checks

Every production website deployment must verify:

Links.
Forms.
Authentication routes.
Checkout routes.
Analytics events.
Consent.
Metadata.
Structured data.
Redirects.
Mobile behavior.
Keyboard operation.
Screen-reader semantics.
Color contrast.
Performance.
Security headers.
Error monitoring.
Rollback.

OWASP ASVS provides a basis for testing technical web-application security controls and defining secure-development requirements.

Part X — Security, Quality, and Production Readiness
44. Secure-development baseline

Use the NIST Secure Software Development Framework as the organizational baseline and OWASP ASVS as the application-verification baseline. NIST SSDF is designed to integrate secure practices into the software development lifecycle rather than leaving security until the final stage.

45. Required test layers
Test	Purpose
Unit	Verify isolated business logic
Module integration	Verify module boundaries
API contract	Verify OpenAPI behavior
Event contract	Verify event compatibility
Database migration	Verify upgrade and data integrity
Tenant isolation	Prevent cross-company access
Permission	Verify role and policy enforcement
End-to-end	Verify complete customer workflows
Accessibility	Verify WCAG behavior
Security	Verify technical controls
Load	Verify critical workflow capacity
Backup restoration	Verify recoverability
AI evaluation	Verify output quality and safety
Release installation	Verify clean deployment
Upgrade	Verify movement between supported versions
46. Production-ready definition

A release is not production-ready merely because it starts.

It must have:

Reproducible build.
Automated tests.
Approved migrations.
Permission tests.
Tenant isolation.
Security checks.
Dependency inventory.
SBOM.
License notices.
Build provenance.
Health checks.
Logs, metrics, and traces.
Backup and restore.
Rollback.
Incident runbook.
User documentation.
Administrator documentation.
Developer documentation.
Support process.
Human release approval.
Part XI — NerdCommand Operating Model
47. Company value streams
Value stream	Outcome
Direction-to-Priority	Strategy becomes owned work
Market-to-Lead	Marketing creates attributable interest
Lead-to-Revenue	Qualified demand becomes a customer
Contract-to-Onboarding	Signed customer receives an operating workspace
Onboarding-to-Value	Customer reaches a measurable first result
Idea-to-Release	Product idea becomes verified software
Issue-to-Resolution	Problems are contained and corrected
Invoice-to-Cash	Revenue is billed and collected
Signal-to-Improvement	Results improve processes and products
Blueprint-to-Foundry-Pack	Business design becomes a release
Release-to-Update	Customer systems remain current
48. Operating cadence
Continuous
Website and application monitoring.
Security alerts.
Workflow execution.
Customer event processing.
AI activity monitoring.
Failed-job recovery.
Daily
Personal Command queue.
Executive Command Brief.
Blocker review.
Incident review.
High-priority sales and customer alerts.
Weekly
Company scorecard.
Revenue pipeline.
Delivery and customer health.
Product and reliability.
Risks and decisions.
Foundry build status.
Capacity.
Monthly
Financial review.
Retention and customer outcomes.
Product usage.
AI cost and quality.
Security and access.
Process performance.
Marketing performance.
Quarterly
Strategy.
Product families.
Foundry Pack portfolio.
Pricing.
Major risks.
Hiring and investment.
Process redesign.
Market positioning.
49. Initial organization
Role	Accountability
Founder/CEO	Vision, market, capital, final business decisions
CIO/Product Architecture	Operating model, systems, data, governance
Founding Engineer	Platform implementation and technical quality
Product Designer	Website, application, design system, user research
Process Architect	Business workflows, SOPs, vertical research
Customer Implementation Lead	Onboarding, migration, customer outcomes
Growth and Sales Lead	Pipeline, content, partnerships, sales
Security/Privacy Advisor	Security, privacy, incident and compliance review
Finance/Legal Advisors	Contracts, licensing, accounting, claims, company structure

Early team members may hold multiple roles, but each accountability must remain explicit.

Part XII — NerdCommand Business Plan
50. Executive summary

NerdCommand is an AI-powered software company that manufactures source-included business operating systems.

Its flagship platform, NerdCommand OS, coordinates people, processes, policies, data, software, and AI. NerdCommand Foundry uses a reusable Business Genome to manufacture industry-specific Foundry Packs. Customers may purchase source rights, use NerdCommand Cloud, hire NerdCommand for implementation, and subscribe to updates and managed operations.

Deckbrief serves both as a focused founder-reporting product and as the reusable Command Brief Engine inside NerdCommand OS.

The first proposed product family is Local Service Company OS, beginning with Residential Cleaning Company OS.

51. Customer problem

Small businesses frequently operate through disconnected systems:

Website.
Email.
CRM.
Calendar.
spreadsheets.
payment service.
file storage.
marketing tools.
AI subscriptions.
undocumented procedures.

This produces:

Missed leads.
inconsistent follow-up.
manual re-entry.
weak accountability.
limited visibility.
difficult employee training.
poor customer handoffs.
uncontrolled AI usage.
expensive customization.
dependency on software vendors.

New founders face a related problem: they can acquire individual tools but still lack an integrated operating model.

52. NerdCommand solution

NerdCommand provides a configured operating platform containing:

Source code.
Database.
APIs.
Admin dashboard.
Customer and employee interfaces.
Business workflows.
AI agents.
Permissions.
Analytics.
Deployment.
Documentation.
Business playbooks.
Update path.
Managed cloud option.
53. Competitive position
Alternative	What it provides	NerdCommand difference
Horizontal SaaS	Generic features	Vertical operating workflows and source options
Vertical SaaS	Industry software	Source inclusion, modularity, Foundry updates, custom deployment
Template marketplace	Code	Business processes, verification, support, and updates
Custom agency	Tailored build	Reusable architecture and lower repeated development
No-code tools	Fast assembly	Governed source, tests, deployment, and ownership controls
Franchise or opportunity	Business model	NerdCommand sells software and operating tools without guaranteeing income
54. Intellectual-property moat

NerdCommand’s long-term moat is:

Business Genome ontology.
Module contracts.
Capability graph.
Vertical workflows.
Product recipes.
Compatibility data.
Release pipeline.
Upgrade system.
AI evaluations.
Verified components.
Operating and customer outcome data.
Licensing and provenance records.
Partner ecosystem.

The moat is not merely generated code.

55. Revenue model
One-time revenue
Command Audits.
Business System Blueprints.
Foundry Pack licenses.
Implementation.
Data migration.
Custom modules.
Enterprise setup.
Recurring revenue
NerdCommand Cloud.
Foundry Updates.
AI usage.
Managed integrations.
Support.
Managed Command Operations.
Partner subscriptions.
Marketplace commissions.
56. Working pricing hypotheses

These are internal hypotheses, not final public prices.

Offer	Working range
Architect Session	Free
Business Blueprint	$99–$499
Starter source package	$999–$2,500
Professional Foundry Pack	$2,500–$10,000
Pack plus implementation	$5,000–$25,000
NerdCommand Cloud	$99–$499 per month
Updates and support	$49–$299 per month
AI and communications	Usage-based
Partner license	Contracted annual plan
Enterprise	Custom

Do not publish these until paid discovery measures:

Implementation time.
Cloud cost.
AI cost.
support burden.
customization demand.
willingness to pay.
gross margin.
retention.
57. Customer acquisition system
Educational content or partner referral
→ NerdCommand.com
→ Architect session
→ Business-system summary
→ Command Audit
→ Foundry Pack recommendation
→ Demonstration
→ Blueprint or proposal
→ License
→ Implementation
→ NerdCommand Cloud
→ Customer outcome review
→ Expansion or referral
58. Go-to-market sequence
Stage 1 — Dogfood

Run NerdCommand’s website, sales, product, delivery, and reporting through NerdCommand OS.

Stage 2 — Deckbrief Product Zero

Use Deckbrief to prove:

Repository audit.
Module extraction.
AI Gateway.
report templates.
versioned releases.
customer migration.
Stage 3 — Paid design partners

Recruit a small number of cleaning or local-service operators who will provide:

Workflow access.
feedback.
real data.
paid participation.
case-study permission when earned.
Stage 4 — Vertical launch

Launch one complete Foundry Pack with a live demonstration.

Stage 5 — Product-family expansion

Create the second vertical from the same Local Service Company core.

Stage 6 — Partner channel

Enable consultants and agencies to deploy configured systems.

Stage 7 — Marketplace

Open add-ons only after compatibility and update management work reliably.

59. Marketing plan

Content pillars:

How specific businesses actually operate.
Business-system breakdowns.
Source ownership versus SaaS rental.
AI governance for small companies.
Workflow and revenue improvements.
Behind the Foundry.
Product release demonstrations.
Customer operating transformations.
Business Genome research.
Deckbrief reporting guidance.

Primary content formats:

Industry system maps.
Interactive Architect sessions.
Live workflow demonstrations.
Founder reports.
Build-in-public release notes.
Technical architecture articles.
Customer case studies.
Partner education.
60. Sales strategy

Do not begin with a fully self-service checkout for expensive products.

Initial sales process:

Architect intake.
Qualification.
Discovery or Command Audit.
Live demonstration.
Blueprint.
Proposal.
License and implementation agreement.
Onboarding.

Self-service purchase should begin with lower-risk products such as blueprints, starter code, or clearly standardized packs.

61. Customer success strategy

Every customer receives:

Success outcome.
Activation checklist.
Assigned owner.
Onboarding process.
Data migration plan.
Training.
support route.
health score.
outcome review.
renewal or update plan.

Customer success must measure business adoption, not merely account login.

62. Financial model structure
Revenue formula
Total revenue =
Source licenses
+ Implementation
+ Cloud subscriptions
+ Update subscriptions
+ AI and usage charges
+ Managed operations
+ Partner revenue
+ Marketplace commissions
Cost of revenue
Hosting
AI inference
Email and SMS
Payment processing
Customer support
Implementation labor
Third-party service licenses
Backup and monitoring
Operating expenses
Engineering
Product and design
Sales and marketing
Security
Legal and insurance
Administration
Research
Contractors
Core financial targets

These are planning targets rather than predictions:

Majority of customers attach to a recurring plan.
Software and cloud gross margin improve as modules are reused.
Services remain standardized and do not consume the entire company.
Customer acquisition is recovered from license plus recurring margin.
AI cost is measured per successful business outcome.
Every new vertical reduces the average amount of custom engineering required.
63. Validation gates
Proof gate
NerdCommand operates through its own system.
Deckbrief decision completed.
One end-to-end sales and delivery workflow works.
Paid design partners participate.
One Foundry Pack reaches release candidate.
Repeatability gate
Multiple customers use the same core modules.
Install and onboarding are documented.
Updates succeed without manual rebuilding.
Cloud attach rate is measurable.
Customer outcomes support a real case study.
Scale gate
Second vertical reuses the Local Service core.
Partner deployment is controlled.
Support burden remains manageable.
Module compatibility is reliable.
The Foundry produces products faster without lowering quality.
64. Company scorecard
Financial
Recurring revenue.
License revenue.
Gross margin by revenue line.
Cash runway.
Collections.
Cloud and AI cost.
Revenue per customer.
Sales
Architect completion.
Qualified-lead rate.
Command Audit conversion.
Proposal win rate.
Sales-cycle length.
Source-to-revenue.
Customer
Onboarding completion.
Time to first value.
Activation.
Active usage.
Support resolution.
Customer health.
Renewal.
Expansion.
Referral.
Product
Deployment frequency.
Change lead time.
Failed deployment recovery.
Change-failure rate.
Deployment rework.
Availability.
Escaped defects.
Foundry
Percentage of modules reused.
Time from recipe approval to build candidate.
Build success.
Verification pass rate.
Documentation completeness.
Upgrade success.
Number of product-specific forks.
AI
Cost per accepted output.
Human acceptance rate.
Correction rate.
Failure rate.
Hallucination or unsupported-claim rate.
Unauthorized-action attempts.
Agent execution time.
Operations
Command completion.
Overdue work.
Blocked-work age.
Approval time.
Process exceptions.
Rework.
Incident resolution.
Part XIII — Risk Register
65. Scope risk

Risk: Building the full Foundry, marketplace, agents, OS, and many vertical products simultaneously.

Control: One platform, one full workflow, one product family, one vertical.

66. Fork and update risk

Risk: Customer repositories drift and become impossible to update.

Control: Module manifests, lockfiles, product recipes, compatibility tests, and controlled extension points.

67. Deckbrief technical-debt risk

Risk: Existing implementation cannot support NerdCommand architecture.

Control: Audit before integration; preserve the concept and rewrite only when refactoring is uneconomical.

68. Open-source licensing risk

Risk: GitHub Scout introduces incompatible or improperly attributed code.

Control: No automatic import, mandatory license review, SBOM, notices, provenance, and human approval.

69. Security risk

Risk: Multi-tenant customer and business data are exposed.

Control: Organization-level data boundaries, permission tests, audit history, encryption, secure development, incident response, and tenant-isolation testing.

70. AI risk

Risk: AI generates unsupported claims, leaks data, or executes unauthorized actions.

Control: AI Gateway, structured outputs, evidence, evaluations, permissions, human approvals, budgets, logs, and kill switches.

71. Legal-marketing risk

Risk: “Business in a box” is treated as an earnings or business-opportunity promise.

Control: Sell software, workflows, and implementation; avoid income guarantees; substantiate all claims; obtain qualified legal review.

Licensing and permit requirements also vary by activity and location, so Foundry Packs should provide checklists and referrals rather than claiming to provide automatic legal authorization.

72. Support risk

Risk: Every customer requests a unique product.

Control: Configurable modules, approved extension points, product families, documented support boundaries, and priced custom work.

73. Market risk

Risk: Customers like the vision but do not pay enough for the full system.

Control: Paid design partners, early proposals, validated pricing, staged development, and vertical focus.

Part XIV — Final Definition of Done

NerdCommand’s first complete company and product system is finished when all of the following are true:

Company
NerdCommand has a clear software-first identity.
Product and service offers are legally reviewed.
Roles and decision rights are documented.
The company scorecard is active.
NerdCommand uses its own OS.
Website
NerdCommand.com explains the company clearly.
Architect and Command Audit generate real operating records.
Forms, attribution, consent, monitoring, and alerts work.
Product pages are driven from the capability registry.
Documentation, trust, pricing, and release notes are maintained.
Accessibility and security checks pass.
NerdCommand OS
Identity and tenant boundaries work.
Commands, processes, policies, and approvals work.
Lead-to-revenue works.
Customer onboarding and delivery work.
Metrics and executive reporting work.
Audit history is complete.
Backups can be restored.
Deckbrief
Repository decision is complete.
Reusable reporting capabilities are extracted or rebuilt.
Command Brief Engine produces multiple report types.
AI statements are supported by evidence and human approval.
Deckbrief’s standalone future is decided.
Foundry
Business Genome schema is implemented.
Modules are versioned.
Product recipes are reproducible.
Source packages contain SBOM, notices, documentation, and deployment assets.
One vertical Foundry Pack operates in production.
A second derived product proves real reuse.
Commercial system
Customer license exists.
Cloud terms exist.
Support model exists.
Update model exists.
Pricing has been tested.
A paid customer completes onboarding.
A real case study is documented.
Part XV — First Execution Board

These are the first Commands that should enter NerdCommand OS or the project board:

ID	Command
NC-001	Ratify the NerdCommand company and product architecture
NC-002	Establish official naming and public claims
NC-003	Create the NerdCommand GitHub organization and repository standards
NC-004	Obtain and audit the Deckbrief repository
NC-005	Create the architecture decision for the reference stack
NC-006	Define the Business Genome module contract
NC-007	Define the customer source-code and update license model
NC-008	Create the monorepo and local Docker environment
NC-009	Build CI, staging, telemetry, backup, and restoration
NC-010	Build identity, organizations, roles, and audit
NC-011	Build Commands, processes, policies, and approvals
NC-012	Build the NerdCommand design system
NC-013	Build the NerdCommand.com home and platform pages
NC-014	Build Architect and Command Audit intake
NC-015	Build lead-to-revenue workflow
NC-016	Build customer onboarding and delivery
NC-017	Extract or rebuild Deckbrief as Command Brief Engine
NC-018	Build AI Gateway and agent governance
NC-019	Build Business Genome registry and product recipes
NC-020	Conduct Residential Cleaning operator discovery
NC-021	Build Local Service Company OS core
NC-022	Build Residential Cleaning OS overlay
NC-023	Recruit paid design partners
NC-024	Verify, license, and release the first Foundry Pack
NC-025	Produce the first verified customer case study

The governing build order is:

Company foundation → platform foundation → Commands and governance → website and sales → customer delivery → Deckbrief → controlled AI → Foundry → first vertical → commercial scale.

Yesterday 9:39 PM
ok so as my lead program developer do you feel this design is ready build me a txt document that i can hand to my dev team for modular stage by stage build with version control and that is with a nerdcommand.com futuristic website that is locked to the full programming of the full build that evolves with the company and as the build continues to grow the webpage will grow also the updating github then the vercial live site make this build plan i can hand to dev ops then give me recomendation on what code we can start here to put in a support document 
Analysis paused
Analysis paused
Analysis paused
Analysis paused
Analysis paused
Thought for 12m 15s

Yes. As lead program developer, I would authorize the team to begin Stage 0 and Stage 1 immediately.

The overall architecture is strong enough to start. It is not yet ready to be called a completed production design because five decisions still require evidence:

The Deckbrief repository must be audited.
Authentication, database, queue, storage, and backend hosting choices must be recorded as architecture decisions.
The customer source-code license and update agreement must be reviewed.
Tenant isolation and AI authorization rules must be finalized.
The first vertical must be validated with a real design partner.

None of those items should delay the repository foundation, website, design system, product registry, CI/CD, documentation, or Deckbrief audit.

Vercel’s current Git integration supports Preview deployments from branches and pull requests and Production deployments from the configured production branch. It also supports separate Vercel projects for applications inside a monorepo. GitHub rulesets can require CI checks before merging, while deployment environments can restrict branches and protect deployment secrets.

I attempted to generate the downloadable .txt files, but the artifact runtime returned repeated transport errors. The exact copy-ready handoff follows below.

Save as: NerdCommand_DevOps_Modular_Build_Plan_v1.0.txt
NERDCOMMAND.COM DEVOPS AND MODULAR SOFTWARE BUILD PLAN

Version: 1.0.0
Status: Approved for Stage 0 and Stage 1
Date: July 22, 2026
Document Owner: NerdCommand Lead Program Architecture
Audience: Engineering, DevOps, Product, Design, Security, Operations

======================================================================
1. EXECUTIVE MANDATE
======================================================================

NerdCommand is an AI-enabled business operating-system company.

NerdCommand.com is the public face, product storefront, Architect AI
interface, documentation center, trust center, and customer entry point.

NerdCommand OS is the governed operating platform used to run NerdCommand
and support customer operating systems.

NerdCommand Foundry is the manufacturing platform that assembles
industry-specific operating systems from reusable modules.

The Business Genome is the versioned registry of software capabilities,
business workflows, policies, AI agents, product recipes, documentation,
deployment assets, and operating playbooks.

Deckbrief remains a focused product and must be evaluated as the reusable
Command Brief Engine inside NerdCommand OS.

The team is authorized to begin:

- Repository governance.
- CI/CD.
- Vercel deployment.
- Shared design system.
- NerdCommand.com website foundation.
- Product and capability registry.
- Documentation framework.
- Module and event contracts.
- Deckbrief repository audit.

The team is not authorized to begin uncontrolled production use of:

- Autonomous AI agents with write access.
- Automatic GitHub code imports.
- Customer repository generation.
- Marketplace submissions.
- AI financial, legal, employment, security, or production-release actions.
- Deckbrief code migration before its audit is approved.

======================================================================
2. NON-NEGOTIABLE ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES
======================================================================

1. Build a modular monolith first.

2. Do not begin with microservices.

3. Keep module contracts explicit even when modules share one deployment.

4. Maintain one canonical source of product truth.

5. The website must not advertise unreleased capabilities as available.

6. Every product change must include:
   - Code.
   - Tests.
   - Telemetry.
   - Documentation.
   - Release notes.
   - Website impact.
   - Support impact.
   - Migration impact where applicable.

7. Every business record belongs to an organization or workspace.

8. Every privileged action is permission checked.

9. Every privileged action is audited.

10. Every AI action has:
    - An agent identity.
    - A human owner.
    - Approved data access.
    - Approved tool access.
    - A model version.
    - A prompt version.
    - A cost record.
    - An execution record.
    - An approval requirement where applicable.

11. Every release has a rollback path.

12. Every database change has a migration plan.

13. Generated customer products must come from modules and recipes.
    Do not copy folders into unmanaged customer forks.

14. Vercel hosts the website and application frontends.

15. The NerdCommand OS API and background workers remain separately
    deployable.

16. Preview deployments must never use production databases or credentials.

17. Production secrets must never be committed to GitHub.

18. Production-ready means:
    - Tested.
    - Observable.
    - Recoverable.
    - Secure.
    - Documented.
    - Approved.

======================================================================
3. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
======================================================================

NERDCOMMAND
|
+-- NerdCommand.com
|   |
|   +-- Corporate website
|   +-- Foundry Pack catalog
|   +-- Architect AI intake
|   +-- Command Audit intake
|   +-- Pricing and licensing
|   +-- Documentation
|   +-- Release center
|   +-- Trust center
|   +-- Customer login
|
+-- NerdCommand OS
|   |
|   +-- Executive Command Center
|   +-- My Command Center
|   +-- Revenue operations
|   +-- Customer delivery
|   +-- Product operations
|   +-- Process management
|   +-- Policy and approval management
|   +-- Knowledge and decisions
|   +-- Metrics and briefings
|   +-- AI governance
|
+-- NerdCommand Foundry
|   |
|   +-- Industry research
|   +-- Business Blueprint
|   +-- Software plan
|   +-- Business Genome registry
|   +-- Compatibility resolution
|   +-- Product recipes
|   +-- Repository composition
|   +-- Testing and verification
|   +-- Product packaging
|   +-- Release and update management
|
+-- NerdCommand Cloud
|   |
|   +-- Managed hosting
|   +-- Monitoring
|   +-- Backups
|   +-- Updates
|   +-- AI services
|   +-- Support
|
+-- Deckbrief
    |
    +-- Founder and board reporting product
    +-- Candidate Command Brief Engine

======================================================================
4. PROVISIONAL TECHNOLOGY STANDARD
======================================================================

The following is the default stack unless the Stage 0 Deckbrief audit
produces a compelling, documented reason to change it.

Primary language:
- TypeScript.

Monorepo:
- pnpm workspaces.
- Turborepo.
- Changesets.

Public website:
- Next.js App Router.
- React.
- Shared NerdCommand design system.
- Vercel deployment.

Command Center:
- Next.js App Router.
- React.
- Shared NerdCommand design system.
- Vercel deployment.

API:
- Node.js.
- NestJS or another approved modular TypeScript API framework.
- OpenAPI contract.
- Separately deployable container.

Worker:
- Node.js worker application.
- Queue and scheduled execution.
- Separately deployable container.

Database:
- PostgreSQL.

Cache and queue:
- Redis-compatible service or approved durable workflow service.
- Final choice requires an architecture decision.

Files:
- S3-compatible object storage.

Observability:
- OpenTelemetry-compatible logs, metrics, and traces.

Local deployment:
- Docker Compose.

Production frontend:
- Vercel.

Production API and workers:
- Managed container platform selected through an architecture decision.

Infrastructure:
- Docker.
- Infrastructure as code.
- Environment-specific configuration.

AI:
- All model access goes through the NerdCommand AI Gateway.

Do not pin arbitrary dependency versions in this document.
The approved versions must be recorded in the repository lockfile,
runtime configuration, and architecture decisions.

======================================================================
5. PRIMARY REPOSITORY
======================================================================

Create a private GitHub repository:

nerdcommand-platform

Recommended structure:

nerdcommand-platform/
|
+-- apps/
|   +-- website/
|   +-- command-center/
|   +-- docs/
|   +-- api/
|   +-- worker/
|
+-- modules/
|   +-- kernel/
|   +-- identity/
|   +-- organizations/
|   +-- permissions/
|   +-- audit/
|   +-- commands/
|   +-- processes/
|   +-- policies/
|   +-- approvals/
|   +-- metrics/
|   +-- crm/
|   +-- revenue/
|   +-- delivery/
|   +-- support/
|   +-- knowledge/
|   +-- brief-engine/
|   +-- ai-gateway/
|   +-- integrations/
|   +-- genome-registry/
|   +-- product-recipes/
|   +-- foundry-builds/
|   +-- licensing/
|
+-- packages/
|   +-- design-system/
|   +-- product-registry/
|   +-- api-contracts/
|   +-- event-contracts/
|   +-- configuration/
|   +-- telemetry/
|   +-- testing/
|   +-- sdk/
|
+-- foundry/
|   +-- genome/
|   +-- recipes/
|   +-- verticals/
|   +-- agents/
|   +-- prompts/
|   +-- policies/
|   +-- templates/
|
+-- infrastructure/
|   +-- docker/
|   +-- environments/
|   +-- provisioning/
|   +-- monitoring/
|   +-- backups/
|
+-- docs/
|   +-- architecture/
|   +-- adr/
|   +-- rfc/
|   +-- product/
|   +-- security/
|   +-- runbooks/
|   +-- operations/
|   +-- releases/
|   +-- legal/
|
+-- .changeset/
+-- .github/
+-- package.json
+-- pnpm-workspace.yaml
+-- turbo.json
+-- tsconfig.base.json
+-- README.md

======================================================================
6. DECKBRIEF REPOSITORY PROCEDURE
======================================================================

Existing repository:

git@github.com:chapmancapital1-droid/deckbrief.git

Do not immediately merge Deckbrief into the NerdCommand platform.

Required Deckbrief audit:

1. Clone Deckbrief using authorized team credentials.

2. Run it from a clean environment using only documented instructions.

3. Record:
   - Frontend framework.
   - Backend framework.
   - Database.
   - Database migrations.
   - Authentication.
   - Tenant boundaries.
   - AI providers.
   - Prompt locations.
   - PDF generation.
   - Subscriptions.
   - Integrations.
   - Tests.
   - Deployment configuration.
   - Environment variables.
   - Secrets handling.
   - Dependencies.
   - Open-source licenses.
   - Current security findings.
   - Current production behavior.

4. Mark each major component:
   - KEEP.
   - EXTRACT.
   - REFACTOR.
   - REWRITE.
   - RETIRE.

5. Preserve Git history for code moved into the platform.

6. Keep the standalone Deckbrief repository until migration is complete.

7. Do not begin with a Git submodule.

8. Do not rename Deckbrief code and call it NerdCommand OS before the audit.

Potential Deckbrief modules:

- Metric registry.
- Reporting periods.
- Brief templates.
- AI narrative composer.
- Evidence references.
- PDF renderer.
- Version history.
- Brand themes.
- Subscription logic.
- Notification adapters.
- Reporting dashboard.

======================================================================
7. VERSION CONTROL STANDARD
======================================================================

Branch model:

main
- Protected production branch.
- Always releasable.
- No direct developer pushes.

feat/*
- Short-lived feature branches.

fix/*
- Bug corrections.

security/*
- Security corrections.

refactor/*
- Behavior-preserving architecture work.

docs/*
- Documentation-only changes.

release/*
- Used only when a release candidate requires stabilization.

Do not create a permanent develop branch.

Branch examples:

feat/NCOS-142-command-approvals
feat/NCWEB-021-foundry-catalog
fix/NCWEB-091-audit-form-validation
refactor/NCBRF-033-metric-registry
security/NCSEC-017-tenant-isolation

Commit format:

feat(commands): add policy-gated approval transitions

fix(website): preserve attribution during audit submission

refactor(brief-engine): extract report template registry

security(identity): invalidate sessions after role removal

docs(foundry): document module compatibility rules

Versioning:

Use Semantic Versioning:

MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH

MAJOR:
- Incompatible public contract.
- Incompatible customer upgrade.
- Major database or recipe migration.

MINOR:
- Backward-compatible capability.

PATCH:
- Backward-compatible correction.

Examples:

nerdcommand-os@0.4.0
commands@0.3.1
brief-engine@0.2.0
local-service-core@1.0.0
residential-cleaning-os@1.0.0

Use Changesets to:

- Record version intent.
- Generate changelogs.
- Update package versions.
- Coordinate dependent package releases.

======================================================================
8. GITHUB MAIN-BRANCH RULESET
======================================================================

Require:

- Pull request.
- At least one approving reviewer.
- Two reviewers for:
  - Identity.
  - Permissions.
  - Billing.
  - Production migrations.
  - Security.
  - AI production permissions.
- CODEOWNERS approval.
- Dismiss stale approvals after new code is pushed.
- Resolve conversations before merge.
- Block force pushes.
- Block branch deletion.
- Require CI checks.
- Require Vercel preview for frontend changes.
- Require migration checks for schema changes.
- Require secret and dependency scans.

Required checks:

- format
- lint
- typecheck
- unit-tests
- module-integration-tests
- api-contract-tests
- event-contract-tests
- migration-tests
- tenant-isolation-tests
- build-website
- build-command-center
- build-api
- build-worker
- secret-scan
- dependency-review
- security-scan
- accessibility-smoke
- vercel-preview

Administrative bypass must be treated as an emergency event and documented.

======================================================================
9. PULL-REQUEST REQUIREMENTS
======================================================================

Every pull request must answer:

1. What business or customer outcome does this change support?

2. Which module owns it?

3. Is it backward-compatible?

4. Are database migrations included?

5. Are API contracts affected?

6. Are event contracts affected?

7. Are permissions affected?

8. Are tenant boundaries affected?

9. Are tests included?

10. Is telemetry included?

11. Is documentation updated?

12. Is the product registry updated?

13. Does the public website need updating?

14. Is a feature flag required?

15. What is the rollback procedure?

16. What security risk was considered?

17. What AI risk was considered?

18. Is a Changeset included?

======================================================================
10. DEPLOYMENT ENVIRONMENTS
======================================================================

LOCAL

Purpose:
- Developer implementation.

Rules:
- Local containers.
- Synthetic or sanitized data.
- No production credentials.
- One-command startup.
- Environment validation at startup.

PREVIEW

Purpose:
- Pull-request testing and review.

Rules:
- One Vercel Preview deployment per branch or pull request.
- Unique URL.
- Separate Preview environment variables.
- Sandbox integrations.
- Disposable or isolated data.
- Block search indexing.
- Never use production database credentials.

STAGING

Purpose:
- Release acceptance.
- Production migration rehearsal.
- Integration testing.

Rules:
- Stable staging domain.
- Staging database.
- Staging object storage.
- Staging queues.
- Sandbox payment and communications accounts.
- Production-like topology.
- Protected access where appropriate.

PRODUCTION

Purpose:
- Customer-facing NerdCommand environment.

Rules:
- main branch only.
- Production domains.
- Protected secrets.
- Backup before significant migrations.
- Automated smoke test.
- Monitoring and rollback.

Use a Vercel custom environment for staging when the selected plan supports it.
Otherwise use a protected staging branch, assigned domain, and branch-specific
environment variables.

======================================================================
11. GITHUB-TO-VERCEL DEPLOYMENT FLOW
======================================================================

1. Developer creates a short-lived branch.

2. Developer pushes to GitHub.

3. GitHub Actions runs:
   - Formatting.
   - Linting.
   - Type checks.
   - Tests.
   - Builds.
   - Security checks.
   - Contract checks.
   - Migration checks.

4. Vercel creates Preview deployments for affected frontend projects.

5. Product, design, engineering, and QA review the Preview deployment.

6. Required reviewers approve.

7. Required checks pass.

8. Pull request merges into main.

9. Vercel deploys production frontends.

10. Backend pipeline deploys API or worker only when affected.

11. Production smoke tests verify:
    - Home page.
    - Critical routes.
    - Forms.
    - Login.
    - API health.
    - Database connectivity.
    - Critical business events.
    - Error monitoring.

12. Monitoring verifies:
    - Availability.
    - Error rate.
    - Latency.
    - Form success.
    - Conversion events.
    - Background-job failures.
    - Business-process failures.

13. Failed release response:
    - Disable with feature flag when possible.
    - Roll back to prior immutable frontend deployment.
    - Revert code.
    - Follow database rollback or forward-fix procedure.
    - Open an incident Command.

======================================================================
12. ENVIRONMENT AND SECRET POLICY
======================================================================

1. Commit .env.example only.

2. .env.example contains variable names and descriptions, not values.

3. Separate Local, Preview, Staging, and Production values.

4. Do not expose server secrets as public frontend variables.

5. Validate environment variables at application startup.

6. Do not log secret values.

7. Rotate compromised credentials immediately.

8. Use environment-specific service accounts.

9. Prefer short-lived cloud credentials or OIDC.

10. Treat a production environment-variable change as a deployment.

11. Verify the new deployment after changing a variable.

12. Do not place customer information or secrets in AI prompts without
    an approved data policy.

======================================================================
13. DATABASE MIGRATION STANDARD
======================================================================

Use:

EXPAND
- Add new schema without breaking current application versions.

MIGRATE
- Backfill and validate data.

SWITCH
- Move application behavior to the new schema.

CONTRACT
- Remove deprecated schema in a later release.

Production migration requirements:

- Tested against production-like data.
- Backward-compatible during deployment.
- Backup or recovery point confirmed.
- Execution logged.
- Validation queries documented.
- Failure plan documented.
- No manual undocumented production edits.

======================================================================
14. WEBSITE-PRODUCT LOCK
======================================================================

The website must read from the same versioned Product Registry used by:

- Entitlements.
- Pricing.
- Documentation.
- Release management.
- Foundry Pack definitions.
- Support.
- Feature flags.

The Product Registry stores:

- Product family.
- Foundry Pack.
- Feature name.
- Owning module.
- Status.
- First supported version.
- Public visibility.
- Edition.
- Entitlement.
- Documentation.
- Demo.
- Screenshot.
- Limitations.
- Analytics event.
- Deprecation date.
- Retirement date.

Feature lifecycle:

proposed
planned
internal-alpha
private-beta
public-beta
general-availability
deprecated
retired

Public rules:

- Proposed: hidden.
- Planned: roadmap only.
- Internal alpha: hidden.
- Private beta: visible only to authorized design partners.
- Public beta: visible with Beta label and limitations.
- General availability: may appear in pricing and product comparisons.
- Deprecated: visible with migration instructions.
- Retired: removed from sales pages and retained in archived documentation.

A feature is incomplete until the pull request updates:

- Module code.
- Module manifest.
- Product Registry.
- Entitlements.
- User documentation.
- API/event documentation.
- Analytics events.
- Release note.
- Changeset.
- Website when public.
- Support documentation.

======================================================================
15. FUTURISTIC NERDCOMMAND.COM DESIGN STANDARD
======================================================================

Design goal:

Executive mission control.

Do not build:

- A generic SaaS template.
- A fake hacker screen.
- An unreadable neon interface.
- Decorative dashboards with no real data.
- Excessive animations.

Visual language:

- Dark graphite or obsidian foundation.
- High-contrast reading surfaces.
- One restrained electric command accent family.
- Fine grids.
- Signal paths.
- Module maps.
- Status indicators.
- Real process diagrams.
- Real application panels.
- Geometric display typography.
- Highly readable interface typography.
- Motion that represents state change.
- Reduced-motion support.
- WCAG 2.2 AA accessibility target.

The shared design system owns:

- Colors.
- Typography.
- Spacing.
- Layout.
- Buttons.
- Forms.
- Navigation.
- Cards.
- Tables.
- Charts.
- Status badges.
- Command panels.
- Dialogs.
- Notifications.
- Loading states.
- Empty states.
- Error states.
- Permission-denied states.
- Motion.
- Icons.
- Accessibility behavior.

The website and Command Center use the same design-system package.

======================================================================
16. WEBSITE SECTION-BY-SECTION PLAN
======================================================================

GLOBAL SHELL

Build:

- Responsive header.
- Product navigation.
- Login.
- Architect action.
- Footer.
- Consent controls.
- Status banner.
- Search shell.
- Error boundary.
- Analytics.
- Telemetry.

HOME PAGE

Section 1: Hero

Headline:
Launch with a business operating system - not a blank template.

Primary action:
Design My Business System.

Secondary action:
Explore Foundry Packs.

Section 2: Product families

Generated from the Product Registry.

Section 3: Business problem

Explain disconnected websites, CRMs, calendars, payment tools, spreadsheets,
manual procedures, and ungoverned AI.

Section 4: Foundry Pack contents

- Software.
- Deployment.
- Workflows.
- Revenue system.
- Go-to-market resources.
- AI operations.

Section 5: Foundry process

Intent
-> Blueprint
-> Business Genome
-> Product build
-> Verification
-> Launch
-> Improvement

Section 6: Live workflow demonstration

Show a complete business workflow rather than unrelated screenshots.

Section 7: NerdCommand OS

Explain Commands, processes, policies, approvals, evidence, and outcomes.

Section 8: Source code and cloud

Explain:

- Source license.
- NerdCommand Cloud.
- Enterprise deployment.

Section 9: Controlled AI

Show:

- Agent identity.
- Human owner.
- Approved action.
- Approval status.
- Evidence.
- Cost.
- Activity history.

Section 10: Deckbrief

Show how operational data becomes approved business briefings.

Section 11: Case studies

Real evidence only.
No fictional testimonials.

Section 12: Trust

Security, privacy, AI governance, backup, status, and licensing.

Section 13: Pricing

Display only approved products and prices.

Section 14: Final Architect action.

PLATFORM PAGE

- Product definition.
- Command model.
- Executive Command Center.
- My Command Center.
- Revenue operations.
- Client operations.
- Product operations.
- Processes.
- Governance.
- Knowledge.
- Command Briefs.
- AI Gateway.
- Integrations.
- Deployment.
- Security.
- Roadmap.

FOUNDRY PAGE

- Business intent.
- Industry research.
- Business Blueprint.
- Software planning.
- Business Genome.
- Module resolution.
- Repository composition.
- Verification.
- Licensing.
- Deployment.
- Updates.
- Architect action.

FOUNDRY PACK CATALOG

Every Pack record includes:

- Name.
- Family.
- Vertical.
- Status.
- Version.
- Target customer.
- Outcomes.
- Capabilities.
- Agents.
- Integrations.
- Deployment options.
- Source rights.
- Documentation.
- Release notes.
- Demo.
- Support.
- Approved price.

ARCHITECT AI PAGE

Collect:

- Existing or new business.
- Industry.
- Location.
- Customer type.
- Offers.
- Existing systems.
- Team.
- Customer journey.
- Main problems.
- Revenue model.
- Integrations.
- Budget category.
- Deployment preference.
- Source-code requirement.
- Consent.

Produce:

- Business summary.
- Problem map.
- Value streams.
- Required capabilities.
- Foundry Pack match.
- Missing modules.
- Risk questions.
- Recommended next action.

Architect may not publish code or infrastructure without approval.

DECKBRIEF PAGE

- Reporting problem.
- Metric registry.
- Data sources.
- AI draft.
- Evidence.
- Human review.
- Board and investor templates.
- Follow-up Commands.
- Pricing.
- Login.
- NerdCommand OS relationship.

OTHER REQUIRED PAGES

- Services.
- Pricing.
- Licensing.
- Documentation.
- Partners.
- Company.
- Resources.
- Privacy.
- Terms.
- Acceptable Use.
- Security.
- AI Governance.
- Trust Center.
- Status.

======================================================================
17. MODULAR RELEASE PLAN
======================================================================

STAGE 0
Version: 0.0.1
Name: Governance and Deckbrief Audit

Build:

- GitHub organization and teams.
- nerdcommand-platform repository.
- Main ruleset.
- CODEOWNERS.
- PR and issue templates.
- ADR and RFC process.
- Security policy.
- Open-source license policy.
- Customer source-license draft.
- Deckbrief clean-build audit.
- Runtime architecture decisions.
- Initial backlog.

Exit gate:

- No committed secrets.
- Deckbrief audit approved.
- Reference architecture approved.
- Repository controls active.
- Ownership assigned.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 1
Version: 0.1.0
Name: Website, Design System, Registry, and CI/CD

Build:

- Monorepo.
- Next.js website shell.
- Shared design system.
- Product Registry.
- Configuration package.
- Telemetry package.
- GitHub CI.
- Vercel Preview.
- Vercel Production.
- Staging.
- Documentation shell.
- Release center.

Website release:

- Global shell.
- Home page.
- Platform overview.
- Foundry overview.
- Deckbrief relationship.
- Contact/waitlist intake.
- Early trust pages with reviewed claims only.

Exit gate:

- Every PR receives a Preview URL.
- Main deploys to NerdCommand.com.
- Registry controls product display.
- Rollback is demonstrated.
- Form and website errors are observable.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 2
Version: 0.2.0
Name: Platform Kernel, Identity, and Organizations

Build:

- API shell.
- Worker shell.
- PostgreSQL migrations.
- Organizations.
- Workspaces.
- Users.
- Memberships.
- Teams.
- Roles.
- Permissions.
- Sessions.
- Audit events.
- Feature flags.
- Event envelope.
- File-storage contract.

Website release:

- Login route.
- Early-access registration.
- Implemented security details.
- Internal-alpha product statuses.

Exit gate:

- Tenant isolation tests pass.
- Permission tests pass.
- Audit history works.
- Backup and restore works.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 3
Version: 0.3.0
Name: Command Operating-System Core

Build:

- Commands.
- Status transitions.
- Dependencies.
- Evidence.
- Recurring Commands.
- Process definitions.
- Process versions.
- Process runs.
- Policies.
- Controls.
- Approval rules.
- Notifications.
- My Command Center.
- Manager dashboard.

Website release:

- Interactive Command demonstration.
- Expanded Platform page.
- Private beta information.

Exit gate:

Signal
-> Process
-> Commands
-> Policy check
-> Approval
-> Execution
-> Evidence
-> Result

must work with complete audit history.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 4
Version: 0.4.0
Name: Website Intake, CRM, Consent, and Attribution

Build:

- Contacts.
- Companies.
- Leads.
- Consent.
- Attribution.
- Command Audit.
- Architect intake v1.
- Duplicate matching.
- Qualification.
- Spam controls.
- Form monitoring.

Website release:

- Production Command Audit.
- Architect questionnaire.
- Success, retry, and failure states.
- Privacy and consent flow.
- Controlled recommendations.

Exit gate:

Visitor submission
-> Contact/company match
-> Lead
-> Consent/attribution
-> Qualification Command
-> Owner notification
-> User confirmation

must work end to end.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 5
Version: 0.5.0
Name: Revenue and Customer Delivery

Build:

- Opportunities.
- Command Audits.
- Business Blueprints.
- Proposals.
- Pricing policies.
- Approval thresholds.
- Contracts.
- Payment adapters.
- Subscriptions.
- Customer workspaces.
- Onboarding.
- Projects.
- Milestones.
- Support.
- Customer health.
- Renewal Commands.

Website release:

- Approved pricing.
- Customer login.
- Customer portal.
- Implementation page.
- Verified case-study system.

Exit gate:

Lead
-> Audit
-> Proposal
-> Approval
-> Contract
-> Payment
-> Customer
-> Onboarding

must work end to end.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 6
Version: 0.6.0
Name: Deckbrief and Command Brief Engine

Build:

- Metric definitions.
- Metric values.
- Reporting periods.
- Brief templates.
- Source snapshots.
- AI-assisted drafts.
- Evidence references.
- Human editing.
- Approval.
- PDF.
- Web output.
- Email output.
- Markdown.
- JSON.
- History.
- Distribution.
- Follow-up Commands.

Apply the approved Deckbrief audit decision.

Website release:

- Deckbrief product page.
- Command Brief capability page.
- Synthetic sample report.
- Migration and version information.

Exit gate:

The same engine creates:

- Executive Command Brief.
- Investor update.
- Customer project report.

All three must use versioned source data and human approval.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 7
Version: 0.7.0
Name: AI Gateway and Controlled Agents

Build:

- Provider registry.
- Model registry.
- Prompt registry.
- Agent identities.
- Data permissions.
- Tool permissions.
- Cost limits.
- Structured-output validation.
- Evaluation datasets.
- Approval gates.
- AI run history.
- Kill switches.
- Architect AI controlled beta.

Website release:

- AI governance page.
- Agent cards from registry.
- Beta labels.
- Human-control demonstration.

Exit gate:

- AI actions are attributable.
- Unauthorized tools are denied.
- High-impact actions require approval.
- Cost and correction rates are measurable.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 8
Version: 0.8.0
Name: Business Genome and Foundry Core

Build:

- Module manifests.
- Genome registry.
- Capability graph.
- Product recipes.
- Compatibility resolver.
- Foundry lockfile.
- Repository composer.
- Documentation generator.
- Branding configuration.
- Verification pipeline.
- SBOM.
- Third-party notices.
- Build provenance.
- Source package generator.
- License generator.

Website release:

- Registry-driven Foundry Pack catalog.
- Product versions and statuses.
- Interactive Foundry process.
- Source-versus-cloud purchase model.

Exit gate:

Two different test products must be reproducibly generated from shared modules
and different recipes.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 9
Version: 0.9.0
Name: First Foundry Pack Beta

Product family:
Local Service Company OS.

First vertical:
Residential Cleaning Company OS.

Build:

- Leads.
- Estimates.
- Scheduling.
- Recurring services.
- Service areas.
- Crews.
- Jobs.
- Checklists.
- Before/after evidence.
- Customer notifications.
- Payments.
- Reviews.
- Customer portal.
- Operations dashboard.
- Property profiles.
- Room details.
- Cleaning packages.
- Add-ons.
- Supply requirements.
- Access instructions.
- Inspections.
- Re-clean workflow.

Website release:

- Real Foundry Pack page.
- Live demo.
- Beta enrollment.
- Versioned features.
- Known limitations.
- Design-partner application.

Exit gate:

Lead
-> Estimate
-> Booking
-> Crew assignment
-> Service
-> Evidence
-> Payment
-> Review
-> Recurring service

must work for a paid design partner.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 10
Version: 1.0.0
Name: General Availability

Build:

- Final customer licenses.
- Cloud provisioning.
- Update manager.
- Production support.
- Service objectives.
- Status page.
- Incident response.
- Backup recovery.
- Upgrade testing.
- Release integrity.
- Source delivery.
- Paid customer onboarding.

Website release:

- GA product pages.
- Approved pricing.
- Customer onboarding.
- Implemented Trust Center.
- Release center.
- Versioned documentation.
- Verified case study.

Exit gate:

A paying customer can:

- Purchase.
- Receive source rights.
- Deploy.
- Operate.
- Update.
- Restore.
- Open a support case.
- Receive managed service.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE 11
Version: 1.1.0 and later
Name: Scale

Order:

1. Second Local Service vertical.
2. Improved update compatibility.
3. Partner portal.
4. White-label controls.
5. Marketplace governance.
6. Third-party module review.
7. Additional product families.
8. Advanced Architect planning.
9. Enterprise governance.

Do not open the marketplace until compatibility, licensing, security,
support ownership, and customer upgrades are proven.

======================================================================
18. MODULE DEFINITION OF DONE
======================================================================

A module is complete only when it has:

- module.manifest.yaml.
- Owner.
- CODEOWNERS entry.
- Business purpose.
- Public contracts.
- Internal contracts.
- Database migrations.
- Permissions.
- Events produced.
- Events consumed.
- Policies.
- Approval rules.
- Interface states.
- Telemetry.
- Unit tests.
- Integration tests.
- Contract tests.
- Tenant-isolation tests where applicable.
- Security review.
- User documentation.
- Developer documentation.
- Upgrade instructions.
- Rollback instructions.
- Changelog.
- Version.
- Product Registry entry when public.

======================================================================
19. RELEASE DEFINITION OF DONE
======================================================================

A release is production-ready only when it has:

- Reproducible build.
- Locked dependencies.
- Automated test evidence.
- Approved migrations.
- Permission verification.
- Tenant-isolation verification.
- Secret scan.
- Dependency scan.
- Security scan.
- SBOM.
- Third-party notices.
- Build provenance.
- Health checks.
- Logs.
- Metrics.
- Traces.
- Backup evidence.
- Restore evidence.
- Rollback plan.
- Incident runbook.
- User documentation.
- Administrator documentation.
- Developer documentation.
- Support documentation.
- Website update.
- Product Registry update.
- Release notes.
- Product approval.
- Engineering approval.
- Security approval.
- Operations approval.

======================================================================
20. INITIAL DEV TEAM COMMANDS
======================================================================

NC-001 Ratify product and architecture naming.

NC-002 Establish GitHub organization and teams.

NC-003 Create nerdcommand-platform.

NC-004 Configure main ruleset and CODEOWNERS.

NC-005 Create issue, pull-request, ADR, and RFC templates.

NC-006 Clone and audit Deckbrief.

NC-007 Approve runtime, database, authentication, queue, storage, and
       hosting architecture decisions.

NC-008 Create monorepo and root toolchain.

NC-009 Create Next.js website shell.

NC-010 Create shared design system.

NC-011 Create Product Registry.

NC-012 Create feature-status rules and tests.

NC-013 Create release-manifest schema.

NC-014 Create GitHub Actions CI.

NC-015 Connect Vercel Preview and Production.

NC-016 Create Staging environment.

NC-017 Add telemetry, errors, and health checks.

NC-018 Build website shell, Home, Platform, and Foundry pages.

NC-019 Build documentation and release center.

NC-020 Create API and worker shells.

NC-021 Create organization, identity, permission, and audit contracts.

NC-022 Create Command contract.

NC-023 Create domain-event contract.

NC-024 Add database migration framework.

NC-025 Add backup and restoration runbook.

NC-026 Build first controlled website intake.

======================================================================
21. BUILD ORDER
======================================================================

Governance and repository facts

-> Website, design system, Product Registry, and CI/CD

-> Identity, organizations, permissions, and audit

-> Commands, processes, policies, and approvals

-> Website intake, CRM, consent, and attribution

-> Revenue and customer delivery

-> Deckbrief and Command Brief Engine

-> AI Gateway and controlled agents

-> Business Genome and Foundry

-> First vertical Foundry Pack

-> General availability

-> Partners and marketplace

NerdCommand.com goes live early.

It grows only from approved product truth.

The same Product Registry controls:

- Website product claims.
- Feature status.
- Catalog records.
- Documentation.
- Release notes.
- Entitlements.
- Pricing eligibility.
- Support information.
- Deprecation.

That is how the website remains locked to the actual NerdCommand program as
the company and platform grow.
Starter-code support recommendations

The first code should establish the repository, product truth, website shell, and deployment controls. It should not begin with autonomous AI or vertical-specific software.

Start with these files
package.json
pnpm-workspace.yaml
turbo.json
tsconfig.base.json
.nvmrc
.env.example
.gitignore

.github/
├── CODEOWNERS
├── pull_request_template.md
├── dependabot.yml
└── workflows/
    └── ci.yml

apps/
└── website/
    └── src/
        └── app/
            ├── layout.tsx
            ├── page.tsx
            ├── globals.css
            ├── platform/
            ├── foundry/
            └── deckbrief/

packages/
├── design-system/
├── product-registry/
├── api-contracts/
├── event-contracts/
├── configuration/
└── telemetry/

docs/
├── START_HERE.md
├── architecture/
├── adr/
├── security/
├── runbooks/
└── releases/
1. Product Registry contract

This is the most important first domain code because it locks the website to actual software status.

export const featureStatuses = [
  "proposed",
  "planned",
  "internal-alpha",
  "private-beta",
  "public-beta",
  "general-availability",
  "deprecated",
  "retired",
] as const;

export type FeatureStatus = (typeof featureStatuses)[number];

export interface ProductFeature {
  readonly slug: string;
  readonly name: string;
  readonly module: string;
  readonly status: FeatureStatus;
  readonly introducedIn?: string;
  readonly public: boolean;
  readonly summary: string;
  readonly editions: readonly string[];
  readonly documentationPath?: string;
  readonly activationEvent?: string;
  readonly limitations?: readonly string[];
}

export function mayAdvertiseFeature(feature: ProductFeature): boolean {
  return (
    feature.public &&
    ["public-beta", "general-availability", "deprecated"].includes(
      feature.status,
    )
  );
}

Example record:

export const productFeatures = [
  {
    slug: "command-workflows",
    name: "Command Workflows",
    module: "commands",
    status: "planned",
    public: true,
    summary:
      "Turn business signals into owned, policy-controlled work with evidence.",
    editions: ["platform"],
    documentationPath: "/docs/commands",
    activationEvent: "command.completed.v1",
  },
  {
    slug: "command-briefs",
    name: "Command Briefs",
    module: "brief-engine",
    status: "planned",
    public: true,
    summary:
      "Create approved executive, customer, board, and investor briefings.",
    editions: ["professional", "enterprise"],
    documentationPath: "/docs/briefs",
    activationEvent: "brief.approved.v1",
  },
] as const satisfies readonly ProductFeature[];

Required tests:

- Planned features do not render as available.
- Internal-alpha features do not render publicly.
- Public-beta features display a Beta label.
- Deprecated features display migration information.
- Retired features do not display on sales pages.
2. Command contract
export const commandStatuses = [
  "draft",
  "ready",
  "active",
  "waiting",
  "waiting-for-approval",
  "blocked",
  "completed",
  "cancelled",
] as const;

export type CommandStatus = (typeof commandStatuses)[number];

export interface CommandRecord {
  readonly id: string;
  readonly organizationId: string;
  readonly title: string;
  readonly outcome: string;
  readonly ownerUserId: string;
  readonly status: CommandStatus;
  readonly priority: "low" | "normal" | "high" | "critical";
  readonly dueAt?: string;
  readonly processVersionId?: string;
  readonly relatedEntityType?: string;
  readonly relatedEntityId?: string;
  readonly requiresApproval: boolean;
  readonly createdAt: string;
  readonly updatedAt: string;
}

Keep this contract independent from the database and web framework. Database annotations belong in the persistence adapter, not in the shared domain contract.

3. Domain-event envelope
export interface DomainEvent<TPayload extends object> {
  readonly eventId: string;
  readonly eventType: string;
  readonly schemaVersion: number;
  readonly organizationId: string;
  readonly aggregateType: string;
  readonly aggregateId: string;
  readonly occurredAt: string;

  readonly actor: {
    readonly type: "user" | "agent" | "system" | "integration";
    readonly id: string;
  };

  readonly correlationId: string;
  readonly causationId?: string;
  readonly payload: TPayload;
}

Example event:

website.command_audit_submitted.v1

Event rules:

Never change the meaning of an existing version.
Create a new version for an incompatible payload.
Always include organization context.
Include actor, correlation, and causation.
Never include secrets.
4. Module manifest
name: commands
display_name: Commands
version: 0.1.0
status: internal-alpha
owner: platform-operations

capabilities:
  - command-records
  - command-assignment
  - command-status
  - command-evidence

requires:
  organizations: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"
  permissions: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"
  audit: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"

provides_events:
  - command.created.v1
  - command.assigned.v1
  - command.status_changed.v1
  - command.completed.v1

consumes_events:
  - website.command_audit_submitted.v1

permissions:
  - commands.read
  - commands.create
  - commands.assign
  - commands.transition
  - commands.approve

public_features:
  - command-workflows
5. Website renders only approved capabilities
import {
  mayAdvertiseFeature,
  productFeatures,
} from "@nerdcommand/product-registry";

export default function PlatformPage() {
  const visibleFeatures = productFeatures.filter(mayAdvertiseFeature);

  return (
    <main>
      <section aria-labelledby="platform-title">
        <p>NerdCommand OS</p>
        <h1 id="platform-title">
          Run the work. Govern the AI. Measure the outcome.
        </h1>
      </section>

      <section aria-labelledby="capabilities-title">
        <h2 id="capabilities-title">Available capabilities</h2>

        <div>
          {visibleFeatures.map((feature) => (
            <article key={feature.slug}>
              <p>{feature.status}</p>
              <h3>{feature.name}</h3>
              <p>{feature.summary}</p>
            </article>
          ))}
        </div>
      </section>
    </main>
  );
}
6. CI baseline
name: CI

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]
  push:
    branches: [main]

permissions:
  contents: read

concurrency:
  group: ci-${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true

jobs:
  validate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    timeout-minutes: 20

    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@<PINNED-COMMIT-SHA>

      - name: Enable Corepack
        run: corepack enable

      - name: Set up Node
        uses: actions/setup-node@<PINNED-COMMIT-SHA>
        with:
          node-version-file: ".nvmrc"
          cache: "pnpm"

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: pnpm install --frozen-lockfile

      - name: Format check
        run: pnpm format:check

      - name: Lint
        run: pnpm lint

      - name: Typecheck
        run: pnpm typecheck

      - name: Unit tests
        run: pnpm test

      - name: Build
        run: pnpm build

Use minimal GITHUB_TOKEN permissions and pin third-party Actions to immutable commit SHAs. GitHub status checks can be required before a pull request reaches the protected branch, while deployment environments can delay access to environment secrets until the configured protections pass.

7. First documentation files
README.md
docs/START_HERE.md
docs/architecture/SYSTEM_CONTEXT.md
docs/architecture/MODULE_RULES.md
docs/adr/0001-monorepo.md
docs/adr/0002-frontend-hosting-vercel.md
docs/adr/0003-api-worker-deployment.md
docs/adr/0004-database.md
docs/adr/0005-authentication.md
docs/adr/0006-deckbrief-disposition.md
docs/security/THREAT_MODEL.md
docs/security/SECRETS.md
docs/runbooks/LOCAL_SETUP.md
docs/runbooks/DEPLOY_WEBSITE.md
docs/runbooks/ROLLBACK_WEBSITE.md
docs/runbooks/DATABASE_RESTORE.md
docs/releases/README.md
Immediate coding order
Root repository and GitHub controls.
Product Registry and status tests.
Design tokens and accessible primitives.
Website global shell.
Home, Platform, Foundry, and Deckbrief pages.
GitHub CI and Vercel Preview/Production linkage.
Telemetry and global error handling.
Documentation and release center.
Command and event contracts.
API and worker health-check shells.
Deckbrief audit.
Identity, organizations, permissions, and audit implementation.

Vercel supports a separate project for each selected application directory in a monorepo, and separates Development, Preview, Production, and custom-environment configuration. A Vercel Pro or Enterprise plan is the practical baseline for custom staging environments.

The first actual implementation milestone should be NerdCommand Platform 0.1.0: a live registry-driven NerdCommand.com, shared design system, protected GitHub workflow, Vercel Preview/Production pipeline, documentation center, release manifest, telemetry, and completed Deckbrief audit.

resume
Analysis paused
Analysis paused
Thought for 4m 40s

Resumed. The NerdCommand architecture is approved to begin Stage 0 and Stage 1.

The file-export runtime failed again, so I cannot honestly claim that the two new .txt files were successfully written. The complete DevOps handoff is preserved in the preceding message. The existing CIO blueprint is also available here:

Download the NerdCommand CIO Blueprint v1

Current execution checkpoint
Authorized now

The development team may immediately build:

GitHub organization and repository controls.
nerdcommand-platform monorepo.
Shared TypeScript configuration and toolchain.
Product Registry.
Shared design system.
Futuristic NerdCommand.com website shell.
GitHub Actions CI.
Vercel Preview and Production deployments.
Staging environment.
Documentation and release center.
Telemetry and error monitoring.
Core Command, event, module, and release contracts.
Deckbrief repository audit.
Not authorized yet

Do not begin these until the required platform controls exist:

Autonomous production agents.
Automated GitHub repository imports.
Customer production-repository generation.
Third-party module marketplace.
Unrestricted AI access to payment, deployment, customer-data, or security tools.
Deckbrief migration before its code audit.
Multiple vertical Foundry Packs.
Microservices.
First release target
NerdCommand Platform
Version: 0.1.0-alpha.1

This release should include:

GitHub governance
+ Monorepo
+ Product Registry
+ Design system
+ NerdCommand.com website
+ Vercel Preview and Production
+ CI checks
+ Telemetry
+ Documentation shell
+ Release manifest
+ Deckbrief audit in progress
First repository structure
nerdcommand-platform/
├── apps/
│   ├── website/
│   ├── command-center/
│   ├── docs/
│   ├── api/
│   └── worker/
│
├── modules/
│   ├── organizations/
│   ├── identity/
│   ├── permissions/
│   ├── audit/
│   ├── commands/
│   ├── processes/
│   ├── policies/
│   ├── approvals/
│   ├── metrics/
│   ├── brief-engine/
│   ├── ai-gateway/
│   └── genome-registry/
│
├── packages/
│   ├── design-system/
│   ├── product-registry/
│   ├── api-contracts/
│   ├── event-contracts/
│   ├── configuration/
│   ├── telemetry/
│   └── testing/
│
├── foundry/
│   ├── genome/
│   ├── recipes/
│   ├── verticals/
│   ├── agents/
│   ├── prompts/
│   └── templates/
│
├── infrastructure/
│   ├── docker/
│   ├── environments/
│   ├── monitoring/
│   └── backups/
│
├── docs/
│   ├── architecture/
│   ├── adr/
│   ├── rfc/
│   ├── security/
│   ├── runbooks/
│   └── releases/
│
├── .changeset/
├── .github/
├── package.json
├── pnpm-workspace.yaml
├── turbo.json
└── README.md
First code packages

The development team should implement these in this order.

1. Product Registry

This prevents the website from claiming that an unfinished feature is available.

export const featureStatuses = [
  "proposed",
  "planned",
  "internal-alpha",
  "private-beta",
  "public-beta",
  "general-availability",
  "deprecated",
  "retired",
] as const;

export type FeatureStatus = (typeof featureStatuses)[number];

export interface ProductFeature {
  readonly slug: string;
  readonly name: string;
  readonly module: string;
  readonly status: FeatureStatus;
  readonly public: boolean;
  readonly summary: string;
  readonly editions: readonly string[];
  readonly introducedIn?: string;
  readonly documentationPath?: string;
  readonly activationEvent?: string;
  readonly limitations?: readonly string[];
  readonly migrationPath?: string;
}

export function mayAdvertiseFeature(
  feature: ProductFeature,
): boolean {
  return (
    feature.public &&
    [
      "public-beta",
      "general-availability",
      "deprecated",
    ].includes(feature.status)
  );
}

Required rules:

Proposed              Hidden
Planned               Roadmap only
Internal Alpha        Hidden
Private Beta          Authorized customers only
Public Beta           Visible with Beta label
General Availability  Available in catalog and pricing
Deprecated            Visible with migration instructions
Retired               Removed from sales pages
2. Command contract
export const commandStatuses = [
  "draft",
  "ready",
  "active",
  "waiting",
  "waiting-for-approval",
  "blocked",
  "completed",
  "cancelled",
] as const;

export type CommandStatus =
  (typeof commandStatuses)[number];

export interface CommandRecord {
  readonly id: string;
  readonly organizationId: string;
  readonly title: string;
  readonly outcome: string;
  readonly ownerUserId: string;
  readonly status: CommandStatus;
  readonly priority:
    | "low"
    | "normal"
    | "high"
    | "critical";
  readonly dueAt?: string;
  readonly processVersionId?: string;
  readonly relatedEntityType?: string;
  readonly relatedEntityId?: string;
  readonly requiresApproval: boolean;
  readonly createdAt: string;
  readonly updatedAt: string;
}
3. Domain-event contract
export type ActorType =
  | "user"
  | "agent"
  | "system"
  | "integration";

export interface DomainEvent<
  TPayload extends object,
> {
  readonly eventId: string;
  readonly eventType: string;
  readonly schemaVersion: number;
  readonly organizationId: string;
  readonly aggregateType: string;
  readonly aggregateId: string;
  readonly occurredAt: string;

  readonly actor: {
    readonly type: ActorType;
    readonly id: string;
  };

  readonly correlationId: string;
  readonly causationId?: string;
  readonly payload: TPayload;
}

Initial event names:

website.contact_submitted.v1
website.command_audit_submitted.v1
architect.session_started.v1
lead.created.v1
lead.qualified.v1
command.created.v1
command.status_changed.v1
command.completed.v1
brief.approved.v1
release.published.v1
4. Module manifest
name: commands
display_name: Commands
version: 0.1.0
status: internal-alpha
owner: platform-operations

capabilities:
  - command-records
  - command-assignment
  - command-status
  - command-evidence

requires:
  organizations: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"
  permissions: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"
  audit: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"

provides_events:
  - command.created.v1
  - command.assigned.v1
  - command.status_changed.v1
  - command.completed.v1

consumes_events:
  - website.command_audit_submitted.v1

permissions:
  - commands.read
  - commands.create
  - commands.assign
  - commands.transition
  - commands.approve

public_features:
  - command-workflows
Website work for the first release

The first NerdCommand.com release should contain:

Global responsive shell.
Futuristic mission-control visual system.
Home page.
Platform overview.
Foundry overview.
Deckbrief relationship page.
Company page.
Contact or early-access intake.
Privacy and Terms placeholders reviewed before production.
Documentation shell.
Release center.
Status and Trust Center placeholders that only describe implemented controls.

The site must not advertise the full operating system as available during the alpha phase.

The first hero can say:

Build the operating system behind your business.

Supporting statement:

NerdCommand is developing source-included software, governed AI, reusable workflows, and deployment systems for businesses that need more than disconnected applications.

Primary action:

Join the Foundry Preview

Secondary action:

Explore the Architecture

GitHub workflow
Issue or RFC
→ Short-lived branch
→ Code
→ Tests
→ Telemetry
→ Documentation
→ Changeset
→ Product Registry update
→ Pull request
→ GitHub Actions
→ Vercel Preview
→ Product and engineering review
→ Merge to main
→ Production deployment
→ Smoke tests
→ Monitoring
→ Release note

Required branch prefixes:

feat/
fix/
security/
refactor/
docs/

Required commit format:

feat(website): add Foundry platform section
feat(registry): add product feature lifecycle
fix(website): preserve Command Audit attribution
security(identity): revoke sessions after role removal
refactor(brief-engine): extract metric definitions
docs(devops): add production rollback procedure
Deckbrief audit gate

The Deckbrief repository remains separate:

git@github.com:chapmancapital1-droid/deckbrief.git

Before migration, the team must produce:

Deckbrief_Repository_Audit_v1.0.txt

The report must contain:

Clean installation result.
Current architecture.
Dependency inventory.
License inventory.
Secret scan.
Authentication review.
Tenant-isolation review.
Database and migration review.
AI provider and prompt review.
PDF-generation review.
Subscription review.
Testing review.
Deployment review.
Component-by-component disposition.

Every component receives one disposition:

KEEP
EXTRACT
REFACTOR
REWRITE
RETIRE
Stage 0 exit criteria

Stage 0 is complete when:

GitHub organization and teams exist.
Repository protections are active.
CODEOWNERS is active.
ADR and RFC procedures exist.
Security and secret-handling policies exist.
Deckbrief builds from a clean environment or its failure is documented.
Deckbrief audit is approved.
The reference technology stack is approved.
No production secrets are committed.
Stage 1 exit criteria

Stage 1 is complete when:

Every website pull request receives a Vercel Preview.
Merging to main deploys NerdCommand.com.
The Product Registry controls public feature visibility.
Planned features cannot accidentally appear as available.
The shared design system powers the website.
Home, Platform, Foundry, and Deckbrief pages are live.
Website errors and failed forms are observable.
Rollback is tested.
Documentation and release notes are versioned.
Release 0.1.0-alpha.1 is tagged.
Lead developer recommendation

The first development sprint should not try to build the entire operating system.

The correct first sprint is:

Build the factory floor before building the factory’s products.

That means repository governance, product truth, design system, website, deployment, telemetry, documentation, and the Deckbrief audit come first. Once that foundation is stable, the team can safely move into organizations, identity, permissions, audit history, and the Command engine.

Today 10:08 AM
can you create a detailed step by step orderly build document with code example for the build team 
Analysis paused
Analysis paused
Thought for 14m 39s
NerdCommand.com and NerdCommand OS
Ordered Modular Build Manual for Engineering and DevOps

Document version: 1.0.0
Date: July 23, 2026
Status: Approved to begin Stages 0–2
Audience: Engineering, DevOps, Product, Design, Security, Operations, and technical leadership
Primary repository: nerdcommand-platform
Existing repository to audit: git@github.com:chapmancapital1-droid/deckbrief.git

The file-export service was unavailable during this run, so this is formatted as a copy-ready Markdown document. Save it as:

docs/NerdCommand_Ordered_Build_Manual_v1.0.0.md
1. Build Authorization

The NerdCommand architecture is ready to begin building.

It is not permission to build every proposed agent, vertical package, marketplace feature, and customer code generator simultaneously.

The authorized first objective is:

Build a secure, versioned software factory floor: repository governance, a shared design system, the Product Registry, NerdCommand.com, CI/CD, documentation, observability, organizational boundaries, audit history, and the Command operating core.

The complete build order is:

Repository governance and technical facts
→ Website, design system, Product Registry, and deployment
→ Organizations, identity, permissions, and audit
→ Commands, processes, policies, and approvals
→ Website intake, CRM, consent, and attribution
→ Revenue and customer delivery
→ Deckbrief and Command Brief Engine
→ AI Gateway and controlled agents
→ Business Genome and NerdCommand Foundry
→ First vertical Foundry Pack
→ General availability
→ Partners and marketplace

Do not reverse this order.

1.1 Approved now

The team may begin:

GitHub organization and repository controls.
A TypeScript monorepo.
A shared frontend design system.
A versioned Product Registry.
The NerdCommand.com website shell.
GitHub Actions.
Vercel Preview, Staging, and Production configuration.
Documentation and release-management structure.
API and worker application shells.
Domain contracts for organizations, Commands, events, permissions, audit, modules, and releases.
A complete Deckbrief repository audit.
1.2 Not approved yet

Do not release:

Autonomous agents with unrestricted production write access.
GitHub Scout automatically importing source code.
Customer repository generation without manifests, lockfiles, license records, and verification.
A public module marketplace.
AI-controlled payments, employment decisions, security changes, or production releases.
A Deckbrief migration before its repository audit.
Multiple vertical applications that bypass the Business Genome.
Microservices without measured technical justification.
1.3 Meaning of production-ready

A feature is not production-ready because it starts locally.

Production-ready means it is:

Versioned.
Tested.
Permission-controlled.
Tenant-isolated.
Observable.
Recoverable.
Documented.
Supportable.
Upgradeable.
Reversible or safely forward-fixable.
Approved by the responsible product, engineering, security, and operations owners.
2. System Map
NERDCOMMAND
Parent software company
│
├── NerdCommand.com
│   ├── Corporate website
│   ├── Product and Foundry Pack catalog
│   ├── Architect AI intake
│   ├── Command Audit intake
│   ├── Pricing and licensing
│   ├── Documentation and releases
│   ├── Trust center and status
│   └── Customer login
│
├── NerdCommand OS
│   ├── Executive Command Center
│   ├── My Command Center
│   ├── Revenue operations
│   ├── Customer delivery
│   ├── Product operations
│   ├── Processes and SOPs
│   ├── Policies, controls, and approvals
│   ├── Knowledge and decisions
│   ├── Metrics and Command Briefs
│   └── AI governance
│
├── NerdCommand Foundry
│   ├── Industry research
│   ├── Business Blueprint
│   ├── Software plan
│   ├── Business Genome registry
│   ├── Compatibility resolution
│   ├── Product recipes
│   ├── Repository composition
│   ├── Verification
│   ├── Licensing and packaging
│   └── Updates
│
├── NerdCommand Cloud
│   ├── Managed hosting
│   ├── Monitoring
│   ├── Backups
│   ├── Updates
│   ├── AI services
│   └── Support
│
└── Deckbrief
    ├── Focused founder and board reporting product
    └── Candidate reusable Command Brief Engine
2.1 Product definitions

NerdCommand OS

The governed execution platform that connects strategy, people, processes, policies, data, software, and AI.

NerdCommand Foundry

The manufacturing system that derives industry operating systems from reusable, versioned assets.

Business Genome

The registry of reusable software modules, data contracts, workflows, policies, agents, playbooks, recipes, and deployment assets.

Deckbrief

A focused reporting product and candidate reusable engine for executive, investor, board, customer, and operating briefings.

3. The Command Model

A Command is the central unit of governed execution.

It must include:

Required outcome.
One accountable human owner.
Supporting participants.
Supporting AI agents.
Source signal.
Related organization.
Related customer, opportunity, project, product, incident, or objective.
Governing process version.
Applicable policies.
Priority.
Due date.
Current status.
Exact next action.
Required approvals.
AI permissions.
Evidence.
Cost and effort.
Final result.
Complete audit history.

Recommended lifecycle:

Draft
→ Ready
→ Active
→ Waiting
→ Waiting for Approval
→ Blocked
→ Completed
→ Cancelled

A normal task says:

Do this work.

A Command says:

Produce this outcome, under this authority, through this process, by this owner, before this deadline, with this evidence.

4. Team Roles and Decision Rights

A small team may combine roles, but the responsibilities must remain explicit.

Role	Accountable for
Founder/CEO	Market, company direction, final commercial decisions
Product Owner	Backlog order, acceptance criteria, product truth
Lead Program Developer	Architecture, module boundaries, engineering quality
DevOps/SRE Lead	Environments, CI/CD, telemetry, backups, incidents
Security Owner	Threat model, access control, reviews, vulnerability response
Product Designer	Design system, website, application UX, accessibility
Process Architect	Value streams, SOPs, policies, vertical workflows
QA Lead	Testing strategy, release verification, regression controls
Deckbrief Maintainer	Repository facts, migration plan, product continuity
Documentation Owner	User, developer, runbook, release, and support documentation
4.1 Approval matrix
Change	Minimum approval
Normal application change	Code owner and product owner
Public website claim	Product owner and content owner
Identity or permission change	Lead developer and security owner
Destructive migration	Lead developer, DevOps, and recovery evidence
Billing or pricing rule	Product owner and finance owner
AI tool permission	AI owner, security owner, affected business owner
Production bypass	Incident commander and documented exception
Open-source exception	Lead developer and license/security review
Customer license change	Company leadership and qualified legal review
5. Technology Baseline

The approved versions of external dependencies must be pinned in the repository lockfile. Do not leave production dependencies on unbounded latest versions.

Layer	Default
Primary language	TypeScript
Package manager	pnpm with Corepack
Monorepo task runner	Turborepo
Frontend	Next.js App Router
Design	Shared React design-system package
API	NestJS modular monolith
API contract	OpenAPI
Database	PostgreSQL
ORM and migrations	Prisma ORM, subject to ADR approval
Queue/cache	Redis-compatible service when required
Object storage	S3-compatible storage
Local runtime	Docker Compose
Frontend hosting	Vercel
API/worker hosting	Managed container runtime selected by ADR
CI/CD	GitHub Actions
Versioning	Semantic Versioning and Changesets
Observability	OpenTelemetry-compatible logs, metrics, and traces
AI	Provider-neutral NerdCommand AI Gateway

Next.js currently recommends its App Router for new applications, and its installation documentation supports create-next-app with TypeScript, ESLint, Tailwind, and the App Router. Current Next.js documentation requires Node.js 20.9 or newer.

NestJS currently requires Node.js 20 or newer and provides a modular TypeScript application structure, OpenAPI integration, and health-check tooling suitable for this API design.

5.1 Architecture decisions required before customer beta

Create an Architecture Decision Record for:

Runtime and Node.js version.
Monorepo and package-manager policy.
Authentication and identity provider.
PostgreSQL provider.
ORM and migration system.
API hosting.
Worker and queue system.
Object storage.
Email and SMS providers.
Payments and subscriptions.
Observability provider.
Error monitoring.
Secrets management.
AI providers and fallback policy.
Deckbrief disposition.
Customer source-license model.
Tenant-isolation strategy.
Backup and recovery objectives.
6. Repository Layout

Create a private GitHub monorepo named:

nerdcommand-platform

Use this structure:

nerdcommand-platform/
├── apps/
│   ├── website/
│   ├── command-center/
│   ├── docs/
│   ├── api/
│   └── worker/
│
├── modules/
│   ├── kernel/
│   ├── identity/
│   ├── organizations/
│   ├── permissions/
│   ├── audit/
│   ├── commands/
│   ├── processes/
│   ├── policies/
│   ├── approvals/
│   ├── metrics/
│   ├── crm/
│   ├── revenue/
│   ├── delivery/
│   ├── support/
│   ├── knowledge/
│   ├── brief-engine/
│   ├── ai-gateway/
│   ├── integrations/
│   ├── genome-registry/
│   ├── product-recipes/
│   ├── foundry-builds/
│   └── licensing/
│
├── packages/
│   ├── design-system/
│   ├── product-registry/
│   ├── api-contracts/
│   ├── event-contracts/
│   ├── configuration/
│   ├── telemetry/
│   ├── testing/
│   └── sdk/
│
├── foundry/
│   ├── genome/
│   ├── recipes/
│   ├── verticals/
│   ├── agents/
│   ├── prompts/
│   ├── policies/
│   └── templates/
│
├── infrastructure/
│   ├── docker/
│   ├── environments/
│   ├── provisioning/
│   ├── monitoring/
│   └── backups/
│
├── docs/
│   ├── architecture/
│   ├── adr/
│   ├── rfc/
│   ├── product/
│   ├── security/
│   ├── runbooks/
│   ├── operations/
│   ├── releases/
│   └── legal/
│
├── .changeset/
├── .github/
├── package.json
├── pnpm-workspace.yaml
├── turbo.json
├── tsconfig.base.json
└── README.md
6.1 Module boundary rule

A module owns:

Its business terminology.
Application services.
Persistence interfaces.
Permissions.
Events.
Policies.
API contracts.
Tests.
Documentation.
Migrations.

A module must not query another module’s tables directly unless an approved ADR permits it. Prefer application contracts and domain events.

7. Repository Bootstrap

Run these commands from a clean developer machine:

mkdir nerdcommand-platform
cd nerdcommand-platform

git init
git branch -M main

corepack enable
corepack use pnpm@latest

pnpm init

mkdir -p apps packages modules foundry infrastructure docs
mkdir -p docs/architecture docs/adr docs/rfc docs/security
mkdir -p docs/runbooks docs/releases docs/operations
mkdir -p .github/workflows .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE

Install the root development tools:

pnpm add -D -w \
  turbo \
  typescript \
  eslint \
  prettier \
  vitest \
  @changesets/cli

Initialize Changesets:

pnpm changeset init

Changesets is designed for versioning and changelogs in multi-package repositories and can coordinate dependent package updates across a monorepo.

Create the website:

pnpm create next-app@latest apps/website \
  --ts \
  --eslint \
  --tailwind \
  --app \
  --src-dir \
  --import-alias "@/*"

Create the Command Center after the website shell is stable:

pnpm create next-app@latest apps/command-center \
  --ts \
  --eslint \
  --tailwind \
  --app \
  --src-dir \
  --import-alias "@/*"

Create the API:

pnpm dlx @nestjs/cli@latest new apps/api \
  --package-manager pnpm \
  --strict \
  --skip-git

Then run:

pnpm install
pnpm format
pnpm lint
pnpm typecheck
pnpm test
pnpm build

Commit the clean baseline:

git add .
git commit -m "chore(platform): establish monorepo baseline"
8. Root Configuration
8.1 package.json

Use the exact package-manager version written by Corepack.

{
  "name": "nerdcommand-platform",
  "private": true,
  "type": "module",
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=20.9.0"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "turbo run dev --parallel",
    "build": "turbo run build",
    "lint": "turbo run lint",
    "typecheck": "turbo run typecheck",
    "test": "turbo run test",
    "format": "prettier --write .",
    "format:check": "prettier --check .",
    "changeset": "changeset",
    "version-packages": "changeset version",
    "release": "changeset publish"
  }
}
8.2 pnpm-workspace.yaml
packages:
  - "apps/*"
  - "packages/*"
  - "modules/*"
8.3 turbo.json
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.com/schema.json",
  "tasks": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [
        ".next/**",
        "!.next/cache/**",
        "dist/**"
      ]
    },
    "dev": {
      "cache": false,
      "persistent": true
    },
    "lint": {
      "dependsOn": ["^lint"]
    },
    "typecheck": {
      "dependsOn": ["^typecheck"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": ["coverage/**"]
    }
  }
}
8.4 tsconfig.base.json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2022",
    "lib": ["ES2022", "DOM", "DOM.Iterable"],
    "module": "NodeNext",
    "moduleResolution": "NodeNext",
    "strict": true,
    "noUncheckedIndexedAccess": true,
    "exactOptionalPropertyTypes": true,
    "noImplicitOverride": true,
    "useUnknownInCatchVariables": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
8.5 .env.example
NODE_ENV=development

WEBSITE_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000
COMMAND_CENTER_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3001
API_ORIGIN=http://localhost:4000

DATABASE_URL=postgresql://nerdcommand:nerdcommand@localhost:5432/nerdcommand
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379

OBJECT_STORAGE_ENDPOINT=
OBJECT_STORAGE_REGION=
OBJECT_STORAGE_BUCKET=
OBJECT_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
OBJECT_STORAGE_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=

IDENTITY_ISSUER=
IDENTITY_AUDIENCE=
IDENTITY_JWKS_URL=

AI_DEFAULT_PROVIDER=
AI_DEFAULT_MODEL=
AI_PROVIDER_API_KEY=

EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY=
SMS_PROVIDER_API_KEY=
PAYMENT_PROVIDER_SECRET_KEY=

OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=
ERROR_MONITORING_DSN=

Never place real secrets in .env.example.

9. Local Infrastructure

Create docker-compose.yml:

services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:17-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: nerdcommand
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: nerdcommand
      POSTGRES_DB: nerdcommand
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"
    volumes:
      - nerdcommand_postgres:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    healthcheck:
      test:
        - CMD-SHELL
        - pg_isready -U nerdcommand -d nerdcommand
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 10

  redis:
    image: redis:7-alpine
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
    healthcheck:
      test:
        - CMD
        - redis-cli
        - ping
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 10

volumes:
  nerdcommand_postgres:

Commands:

docker compose up -d
docker compose ps
docker compose logs -f postgres
docker compose down

The sample passwords are local-only.

10. Version Control Policy
10.1 Branches
main                 Protected production branch
feat/*               Product features
fix/*                Defect corrections
security/*           Security corrections
refactor/*           Architecture work
docs/*               Documentation
release/*            Temporary release-candidate stabilization

Do not maintain a permanent develop branch.

Examples:

feat/NCWEB-021-foundry-catalog
feat/NCOS-142-command-approvals
fix/NCWEB-091-audit-form-validation
refactor/NCBRF-033-metric-registry
security/NCSEC-017-tenant-isolation
10.2 Commit messages
feat(commands): add policy-gated approval transitions
fix(website): preserve attribution during audit submission
refactor(brief-engine): extract report template registry
security(identity): invalidate sessions after role removal
docs(foundry): document module compatibility rules
10.3 Semantic Versioning
MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH
MAJOR: incompatible public contract or customer upgrade.
MINOR: backward-compatible capability.
PATCH: backward-compatible correction.

Version independently:

NerdCommand OS.
Public APIs.
Event schemas.
Reusable modules.
Product recipes.
Foundry Packs.
Deckbrief.
Command Brief Engine.
10.4 Pull-request requirements

Every pull request must answer:

What customer or company outcome does this support?
Which module owns it?
Is it backward-compatible?
Are migrations included?
Are API or event contracts affected?
Are permissions or tenant boundaries affected?
Are tests included?
Is telemetry included?
Is documentation updated?
Is the Product Registry updated?
Does NerdCommand.com need to change?
Is a feature flag required?
What is the rollback procedure?
What security and AI risks were considered?
Is a Changeset included?
10.5 Branch protection

Require:

Pull request.
Code-owner approval.
Dismiss stale approvals after changes.
Resolve all conversations.
Required CI checks.
No force push.
No branch deletion.
Two approvals for identity, permissions, billing, destructive migrations, security, and AI production permissions.
A documented emergency bypass process.

GitHub rulesets support required status checks and can prevent merging until the selected checks have passed.

11. GitHub Actions Baseline

Use immutable commit SHAs for third-party Actions after the DevOps team approves them. Major tags are shown here to keep the example readable.

Create .github/workflows/ci.yml:

name: CI

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]
  push:
    branches: [main]

permissions:
  contents: read

concurrency:
  group: ci-${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true

jobs:
  quality:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    timeout-minutes: 20

    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Enable Corepack
        run: corepack enable

      - name: Setup Node
        uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version-file: ".nvmrc"
          cache: "pnpm"

      - name: Install
        run: pnpm install --frozen-lockfile

      - name: Format
        run: pnpm format:check

      - name: Lint
        run: pnpm lint

      - name: Typecheck
        run: pnpm typecheck

      - name: Test
        run: pnpm test

      - name: Build
        run: pnpm build

Add separate required jobs for:

Database migration tests.
API contract tests.
Event contract tests.
Tenant-isolation tests.
Secret scanning.
Dependency review.
Static analysis.
Accessibility smoke tests.
Vercel Preview.
12. Environments and Deployment
Environment	Purpose	Data	Integrations
Local	Developer implementation	Local/synthetic	Sandboxes
Preview	Pull-request review	Disposable/isolated	Sandboxes
Staging	Release acceptance	Production-like, sanitized	Sandboxes
Production	Customer use	Production	Production
12.1 GitHub-to-Vercel flow
Developer branch
→ Pull request
→ GitHub Actions
→ Vercel Preview
→ Product/design/engineering review
→ Merge to main
→ Vercel Production
→ API/worker deployment when affected
→ Smoke tests
→ Monitoring
→ Release note

Create separate Vercel projects for:

apps/website
apps/command-center
apps/docs

Vercel currently supports Preview deployments for branch and pull-request changes, Production deployments from the configured production branch, and separate projects for directories within one monorepo.

12.2 Deployment rules
Preview never connects to production data.
Staging rehearses migrations.
Significant production migration requires recovery evidence.
Frontend rollback uses an immutable prior deployment or a revert.
Database rollback follows a separate runbook.
Environment-variable changes require a new deployment.
Failed background work must be retryable and observable.
Every deployment has a release identifier.

Vercel environment variables are environment-specific, and changes apply to new deployments rather than altering previous deployments.

13. Product Registry: Locking the Website to the Software

NerdCommand.com must not become an independent marketing codebase that manually claims features.

The shared Product Registry controls:

Product families.
Foundry Packs.
Features.
Status.
Version.
Edition.
Entitlements.
Documentation.
Release notes.
Limitations.
Deprecation.
Website visibility.
13.1 Feature lifecycle
proposed
→ planned
→ internal-alpha
→ private-beta
→ public-beta
→ general-availability
→ deprecated
→ retired
13.2 Visibility rules
Status	Website treatment
Proposed	Hidden
Planned	Roadmap only
Internal alpha	Hidden
Private beta	Authorized design partners
Public beta	Visible with Beta label and limitations
General availability	May appear in pricing and comparisons
Deprecated	Show migration instructions
Retired	Remove from sales pages and archive docs
13.3 Product Registry code

Create packages/product-registry/src/index.ts:

export const featureStatuses = [
  "proposed",
  "planned",
  "internal-alpha",
  "private-beta",
  "public-beta",
  "general-availability",
  "deprecated",
  "retired",
] as const;

export type FeatureStatus =
  (typeof featureStatuses)[number];

export interface ProductFeature {
  readonly slug: string;
  readonly name: string;
  readonly module: string;
  readonly status: FeatureStatus;
  readonly isPublic: boolean;
  readonly summary: string;
  readonly editions: readonly string[];
  readonly introducedIn?: string;
  readonly documentationPath?: string;
  readonly activationEvent?: string;
  readonly limitations?: readonly string[];
  readonly migrationPath?: string;
}

export function mayAdvertiseFeature(
  feature: ProductFeature,
): boolean {
  return (
    feature.isPublic &&
    (
      feature.status === "public-beta" ||
      feature.status === "general-availability" ||
      feature.status === "deprecated"
    )
  );
}

Create packages/product-registry/src/features.ts:

import type { ProductFeature } from "./index.js";

export const productFeatures = [
  {
    slug: "command-workflows",
    name: "Command Workflows",
    module: "commands",
    status: "planned",
    isPublic: true,
    summary:
      "Turn business signals into owned, governed work with evidence.",
    editions: ["platform"],
    documentationPath: "/docs/commands",
    activationEvent: "command.completed.v1",
  },
  {
    slug: "command-briefs",
    name: "Command Briefs",
    module: "brief-engine",
    status: "planned",
    isPublic: true,
    summary:
      "Create approved executive, customer, board, and investor briefings.",
    editions: ["professional", "enterprise"],
    documentationPath: "/docs/briefs",
    activationEvent: "brief.approved.v1",
  },
] as const satisfies readonly ProductFeature[];
13.4 Visibility test
import { describe, expect, it } from "vitest";

import {
  mayAdvertiseFeature,
  type ProductFeature,
} from "../index.js";

function feature(
  status: ProductFeature["status"],
): ProductFeature {
  return {
    slug: `feature-${status}`,
    name: status,
    module: "test",
    status,
    isPublic: true,
    summary: "Test",
    editions: ["test"],
  };
}

describe("feature visibility", () => {
  it.each([
    "proposed",
    "planned",
    "internal-alpha",
    "private-beta",
    "retired",
  ] as const)("does not advertise %s", (status) => {
    expect(
      mayAdvertiseFeature(feature(status)),
    ).toBe(false);
  });

  it.each([
    "public-beta",
    "general-availability",
    "deprecated",
  ] as const)("advertises %s", (status) => {
    expect(
      mayAdvertiseFeature(feature(status)),
    ).toBe(true);
  });
});
14. Futuristic Website Design System

The design goal is:

Executive mission control.

Do not build:

A generic SaaS template.
A fake hacker screen.
An unreadable neon interface.
Decorative dashboards with no real data.
Excessive animations.
Product screenshots for unbuilt features.

Use:

Dark graphite and obsidian foundations.
High-contrast content surfaces.
One restrained command accent.
Fine grids and signal paths.
Real workflow diagrams.
Real application states.
Clear status indicators.
Geometric display typography.
Highly readable body typography.
Meaningful motion.
Reduced-motion support.
WCAG 2.2 AA as the accessibility target.
14.1 Design token example

Create packages/design-system/src/tokens.css:

:root {
  --nc-bg: #080a0f;
  --nc-surface: #11151d;
  --nc-surface-raised: #181e28;
  --nc-border: #2a3342;

  --nc-text: #f4f7fb;
  --nc-text-muted: #a8b3c3;

  --nc-command: #56e6b1;
  --nc-command-strong: #2fcf98;
  --nc-warning: #f3bd61;
  --nc-danger: #ff7474;
  --nc-focus: #89a7ff;

  --nc-radius-sm: 0.5rem;
  --nc-radius-md: 0.875rem;
  --nc-radius-lg: 1.25rem;

  --nc-space-1: 0.25rem;
  --nc-space-2: 0.5rem;
  --nc-space-3: 0.75rem;
  --nc-space-4: 1rem;
  --nc-space-6: 1.5rem;
  --nc-space-8: 2rem;
  --nc-space-12: 3rem;
  --nc-space-16: 4rem;
}

Validate the final palette with automated and human accessibility testing.

15. Website Section Build
15.1 Global shell

Build:

Responsive header.
Product navigation.
Login.
Architect action.
Footer.
Consent controls.
Status banner.
Search shell.
Error boundary.
Analytics.
Telemetry.
15.2 Home page
Hero

Headline

Build the operating system behind your business.

Supporting statement

NerdCommand is building source-included software, governed AI, reusable workflows, and deployment systems for businesses that need more than disconnected applications.

Primary action

Join the Foundry Preview

Secondary action

Explore the Architecture

Additional sections
Product-family selector.
Disconnected-tool problem.
What a Foundry Pack includes.
Foundry process.
Live workflow demonstration.
NerdCommand OS and the Command model.
Source code versus NerdCommand Cloud.
AI permissions and human control.
Deckbrief and Command Briefs.
Verified case studies.
Trust and security.
Approved pricing.
Final Architect action.
15.3 Platform page

Include:

Product definition.
Command model.
Executive Command Center.
My Command Center.
Revenue operations.
Customer operations.
Product operations.
Processes.
Governance.
Knowledge.
Command Briefs.
AI Gateway.
Integrations.
Deployment.
Security.
Roadmap.
15.4 Foundry page

Include:

Business intent.
Industry research.
Business Blueprint.
Software planning.
Business Genome.
Module resolution.
Repository composition.
Verification.
Licensing.
Deployment.
Updates.
Architect action.
15.5 Deckbrief page

Include:

Reporting problem.
Metric registry.
Data sources.
AI-assisted draft.
Evidence.
Human review.
Board and investor templates.
Follow-up Commands.
Pricing.
Login.
Relationship to NerdCommand OS.
16. Module Contract

Every reusable module must contain:

module/
├── module.manifest.yaml
├── README.md
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── LICENSES.md
├── src/
│   ├── domain/
│   ├── application/
│   ├── infrastructure/
│   └── api/
├── database/
│   └── migrations/
├── events/
├── permissions/
├── policies/
├── workflows/
├── telemetry/
├── tests/
└── docs/

Example module.manifest.yaml:

name: commands
display_name: Commands
version: 0.1.0
status: internal-alpha
owner: platform-operations

capabilities:
  - command-records
  - command-assignment
  - command-status
  - command-evidence

requires:
  organizations: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"
  permissions: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"
  audit: ">=0.1.0 <1.0.0"

provides_events:
  - command.created.v1
  - command.assigned.v1
  - command.status_changed.v1
  - command.completed.v1

consumes_events:
  - website.command_audit_submitted.v1

permissions:
  - commands.read
  - commands.create
  - commands.assign
  - commands.transition
  - commands.approve

public_features:
  - command-workflows
17. Domain Contracts
17.1 Command contract

Create packages/api-contracts/src/command.ts:

export const commandStatuses = [
  "draft",
  "ready",
  "active",
  "waiting",
  "waiting-for-approval",
  "blocked",
  "completed",
  "cancelled",
] as const;

export type CommandStatus =
  (typeof commandStatuses)[number];

export interface CommandRecord {
  readonly id: string;
  readonly organizationId: string;
  readonly title: string;
  readonly outcome: string;
  readonly ownerUserId: string;
  readonly status: CommandStatus;
  readonly priority:
    | "low"
    | "normal"
    | "high"
    | "critical";
  readonly dueAt?: string;
  readonly processVersionId?: string;
  readonly relatedEntityType?: string;
  readonly relatedEntityId?: string;
  readonly requiresApproval: boolean;
  readonly createdAt: string;
  readonly updatedAt: string;
}
17.2 Domain-event contract

Create packages/event-contracts/src/domain-event.ts:

export type ActorType =
  | "user"
  | "agent"
  | "system"
  | "integration";

export interface DomainEvent<
  TPayload extends object,
> {
  readonly eventId: string;
  readonly eventType: string;
  readonly schemaVersion: number;
  readonly organizationId: string;
  readonly aggregateType: string;
  readonly aggregateId: string;
  readonly occurredAt: string;

  readonly actor: {
    readonly type: ActorType;
    readonly id: string;
  };

  readonly correlationId: string;
  readonly causationId?: string;
  readonly payload: TPayload;
}

Initial events:

website.contact_submitted.v1
website.command_audit_submitted.v1
architect.session_started.v1
lead.created.v1
lead.qualified.v1
command.created.v1
command.status_changed.v1
command.completed.v1
brief.approved.v1
release.published.v1

Rules:

Never alter the meaning of a released event version.
Create a new version for incompatible changes.
Include organization context.
Include actor, correlation, and causation.
Never include secrets.
Minimize personal data.
18. API Bootstrap

Create apps/api/src/main.ts:

import helmet from "helmet";
import {
  ValidationPipe,
  VersioningType,
} from "@nestjs/common";
import { NestFactory } from "@nestjs/core";
import {
  DocumentBuilder,
  SwaggerModule,
} from "@nestjs/swagger";

import { AppModule } from "./app.module.js";
import { env } from "./config/env.js";

async function bootstrap(): Promise<void> {
  const app = await NestFactory.create(
    AppModule,
    {
      bufferLogs: true,
    },
  );

  app.enableShutdownHooks();
  app.setGlobalPrefix("api");

  app.enableVersioning({
    type: VersioningType.URI,
    defaultVersion: "1",
  });

  app.enableCors({
    origin: env.CORS_ORIGINS,
    credentials: true,
    methods: [
      "GET",
      "POST",
      "PUT",
      "PATCH",
      "DELETE",
      "OPTIONS",
    ],
  });

  app.use(helmet());

  app.useGlobalPipes(
    new ValidationPipe({
      transform: true,
      whitelist: true,
      forbidNonWhitelisted: true,
    }),
  );

  const swaggerConfig =
    new DocumentBuilder()
      .setTitle("NerdCommand API")
      .setDescription(
        "NerdCommand OS public and internal API",
      )
      .setVersion("1.0")
      .build();

  const document =
    SwaggerModule.createDocument(
      app,
      swaggerConfig,
    );

  SwaggerModule.setup(
    "api/docs",
    app,
    document,
  );

  await app.listen(
    env.PORT,
    "0.0.0.0",
  );
}

void bootstrap();
18.1 Environment validation

Create apps/api/src/config/env.ts:

import { z } from "zod";

const schema = z.object({
  NODE_ENV: z
    .enum([
      "development",
      "test",
      "staging",
      "production",
    ])
    .default("development"),

  PORT: z.coerce
    .number()
    .int()
    .positive()
    .default(4000),

  DATABASE_URL: z
    .string()
    .min(1),

  CORS_ORIGINS: z
    .string()
    .default(
      "http://localhost:3000,http://localhost:3001",
    )
    .transform((value) =>
      value
        .split(",")
        .map((origin) => origin.trim())
        .filter(Boolean),
    ),
});

const result =
  schema.safeParse(process.env);

if (!result.success) {
  console.error(
    result.error.flatten().fieldErrors,
  );

  throw new Error(
    "Invalid API environment configuration",
  );
}

export const env = result.data;
18.2 Health endpoint
import {
  Controller,
  Get,
} from "@nestjs/common";

@Controller({
  path: "health",
  version: "1",
})
export class HealthController {
  @Get("live")
  live(): { status: "ok" } {
    return { status: "ok" };
  }

  @Get("ready")
  ready(): { status: "ok" } {
    // Add database, queue, and
    // storage checks before production.
    return { status: "ok" };
  }
}
19. Database Baseline

Every tenant-owned record must include an organization identifier. Frontend filtering is not tenant isolation.

Prisma’s current schema uses the prisma-client generator with a required output path, and database connection configuration is placed in prisma.config.ts. Prisma’s development migration command is for development only; production uses migration deployment rather than migrate dev.

19.1 Prisma schema

Create apps/api/prisma/schema.prisma:

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client"
  output   = "../src/generated/prisma"
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
}

enum MembershipStatus {
  INVITED
  ACTIVE
  SUSPENDED
  REMOVED
}

enum CommandStatus {
  DRAFT
  READY
  ACTIVE
  WAITING
  WAITING_FOR_APPROVAL
  BLOCKED
  COMPLETED
  CANCELLED
}

enum CommandPriority {
  LOW
  NORMAL
  HIGH
  CRITICAL
}

model Organization {
  id           String        @id @default(uuid())
  slug         String        @unique
  name         String
  createdAt    DateTime      @default(now())
  updatedAt    DateTime      @updatedAt
  memberships  Membership[]
  commands     Command[]
  auditEvents  AuditEvent[]
  outboxEvents OutboxEvent[]
}

model User {
  id            String       @id @default(uuid())
  externalId    String       @unique
  email         String       @unique
  displayName   String?
  createdAt     DateTime     @default(now())
  updatedAt     DateTime     @updatedAt
  memberships   Membership[]
  ownedCommands Command[]    @relation("CommandOwner")
}

model Membership {
  id             String           @id @default(uuid())
  organizationId String
  userId         String
  status         MembershipStatus @default(INVITED)
  roleKey        String
  createdAt      DateTime         @default(now())
  updatedAt      DateTime         @updatedAt

  organization Organization @relation(
    fields: [organizationId],
    references: [id],
    onDelete: Cascade
  )

  user User @relation(
    fields: [userId],
    references: [id],
    onDelete: Cascade
  )

  @@unique([organizationId, userId])
  @@index([userId, status])
}

model Command {
  id                String          @id @default(uuid())
  organizationId    String
  title             String
  outcome           String
  ownerUserId       String
  status            CommandStatus   @default(DRAFT)
  priority          CommandPriority @default(NORMAL)
  dueAt             DateTime?
  processVersionId  String?
  relatedEntityType String?
  relatedEntityId   String?
  requiresApproval  Boolean         @default(false)
  createdAt         DateTime        @default(now())
  updatedAt         DateTime        @updatedAt
  completedAt       DateTime?

  organization Organization @relation(
    fields: [organizationId],
    references: [id],
    onDelete: Cascade
  )

  owner User @relation(
    "CommandOwner",
    fields: [ownerUserId],
    references: [id]
  )

  evidence CommandEvidence[]

  @@index([organizationId, status, dueAt])
  @@index([organizationId, ownerUserId, status])
}

model CommandEvidence {
  id             String   @id @default(uuid())
  organizationId String
  commandId      String
  kind           String
  uri            String?
  description    String?
  createdById    String
  createdAt      DateTime @default(now())

  command Command @relation(
    fields: [commandId],
    references: [id],
    onDelete: Cascade
  )

  @@index([organizationId, commandId])
}

model AuditEvent {
  id             String   @id @default(uuid())
  organizationId String
  eventType      String
  actorType      String
  actorId        String
  aggregateType  String
  aggregateId    String
  occurredAt     DateTime @default(now())
  correlationId  String
  payload        Json

  organization Organization @relation(
    fields: [organizationId],
    references: [id],
    onDelete: Cascade
  )

  @@index([organizationId, occurredAt])
  @@index([
    organizationId,
    aggregateType,
    aggregateId
  ])
}

model OutboxEvent {
  id             String   @id @default(uuid())
  organizationId String
  eventType      String
  schemaVersion  Int
  aggregateType  String
  aggregateId    String
  actorType      String
  actorId        String
  correlationId  String
  causationId    String?
  payload        Json
  occurredAt     DateTime @default(now())
  publishedAt    DateTime?
  attemptCount   Int      @default(0)
  lastError      String?

  organization Organization @relation(
    fields: [organizationId],
    references: [id],
    onDelete: Cascade
  )

  @@index([publishedAt, occurredAt])
  @@index([
    organizationId,
    aggregateType,
    aggregateId
  ])
}
19.2 Prisma configuration

Create apps/api/prisma.config.ts:

import "dotenv/config";

import {
  defineConfig,
  env,
} from "prisma/config";

export default defineConfig({
  schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",

  migrations: {
    path: "prisma/migrations",
  },

  datasource: {
    url: env("DATABASE_URL"),
  },
});
19.3 Migration commands

Development:

cd apps/api

pnpm prisma migrate dev \
  --name initialize_platform

pnpm prisma generate
pnpm test

Production:

pnpm prisma migrate deploy
pnpm prisma generate

Never run migrate dev against production.

20. Transactional Command and Outbox

Creating a Command and its event must happen in one database transaction.

import {
  Injectable,
} from "@nestjs/common";

import {
  PrismaService,
} from "../../database/prisma.service.js";

export interface CreateCommandInput {
  organizationId: string;
  title: string;
  outcome: string;
  ownerUserId: string;
  actorUserId: string;
  correlationId: string;
}

@Injectable()
export class CommandsService {
  constructor(
    private readonly prisma:
      PrismaService,
  ) {}

  async create(
    input: CreateCommandInput,
  ) {
    return this.prisma.$transaction(
      async (tx) => {
        const command =
          await tx.command.create({
            data: {
              organizationId:
                input.organizationId,
              title: input.title,
              outcome: input.outcome,
              ownerUserId:
                input.ownerUserId,
            },
          });

        await tx.outboxEvent.create({
          data: {
            organizationId:
              input.organizationId,
            eventType:
              "command.created.v1",
            schemaVersion: 1,
            aggregateType: "command",
            aggregateId: command.id,
            actorType: "user",
            actorId:
              input.actorUserId,
            correlationId:
              input.correlationId,
            payload: {
              commandId: command.id,
              title: command.title,
              ownerUserId:
                command.ownerUserId,
            },
          },
        });

        await tx.auditEvent.create({
          data: {
            organizationId:
              input.organizationId,
            eventType:
              "command.created.v1",
            actorType: "user",
            actorId:
              input.actorUserId,
            aggregateType: "command",
            aggregateId: command.id,
            correlationId:
              input.correlationId,
            payload: {
              status: command.status,
            },
          },
        });

        return command;
      },
    );
  }
}

The outbox worker must:

Find unpublished events.
Publish them.
Use idempotency.
Increment attempt counts.
Save the latest error.
Alert after a defined retry threshold.
Mark successful publication.
Preserve the event record.
21. Permission Pattern

Authorization must not exist only in navigation or hidden buttons.

21.1 Permission decorator
import {
  SetMetadata,
} from "@nestjs/common";

export const REQUIRED_PERMISSIONS =
  "required_permissions";

export function RequirePermissions(
  ...permissions: string[]
): MethodDecorator & ClassDecorator {
  return SetMetadata(
    REQUIRED_PERMISSIONS,
    permissions,
  );
}
21.2 Permission guard
import {
  CanActivate,
  ExecutionContext,
  ForbiddenException,
  Injectable,
} from "@nestjs/common";

import {
  Reflector,
} from "@nestjs/core";

import {
  REQUIRED_PERMISSIONS,
} from "./require-permissions.js";

import {
  PermissionsService,
} from "./permissions.service.js";

@Injectable()
export class PermissionsGuard
  implements CanActivate
{
  constructor(
    private readonly reflector:
      Reflector,
    private readonly permissions:
      PermissionsService,
  ) {}

  async canActivate(
    context: ExecutionContext,
  ): Promise<boolean> {
    const required =
      this.reflector
        .getAllAndOverride<string[]>(
          REQUIRED_PERMISSIONS,
          [
            context.getHandler(),
            context.getClass(),
          ],
        ) ?? [];

    if (required.length === 0) {
      return true;
    }

    const request =
      context
        .switchToHttp()
        .getRequest<{
          auth?: {
            userId: string;
            organizationId: string;
          };
        }>();

    if (!request.auth) {
      throw new ForbiddenException(
        "Authentication context is missing",
      );
    }

    const allowed =
      await this.permissions
        .userHasAll({
          userId:
            request.auth.userId,
          organizationId:
            request.auth.organizationId,
          permissions: required,
        });

    if (!allowed) {
      throw new ForbiddenException(
        "Permission denied",
      );
    }

    return true;
  }
}

Every database query must also be scoped to organizationId.

22. Public Website Intake

Create apps/website/src/app/api/command-audit/route.ts:

import {
  randomUUID,
} from "node:crypto";

import {
  NextResponse,
} from "next/server";

import {
  z,
} from "zod";

const schema = z.object({
  name: z
    .string()
    .trim()
    .min(2)
    .max(120),

  email: z
    .string()
    .email()
    .max(254),

  companyName: z
    .string()
    .trim()
    .min(2)
    .max(160),

  businessType: z
    .string()
    .trim()
    .min(2)
    .max(160),

  primaryProblem: z
    .string()
    .trim()
    .min(20)
    .max(3000),

  consent: z.literal(true),

  source: z
    .string()
    .trim()
    .max(200)
    .optional(),
});

export async function POST(
  request: Request,
): Promise<Response> {
  const requestId = randomUUID();

  let unknownBody: unknown;

  try {
    unknownBody =
      await request.json();
  } catch {
    return NextResponse.json(
      {
        requestId,
        error: "invalid_json",
      },
      {
        status: 400,
      },
    );
  }

  const parsed =
    schema.safeParse(unknownBody);

  if (!parsed.success) {
    return NextResponse.json(
      {
        requestId,
        error:
          "validation_failed",
        fields:
          parsed.error
            .flatten()
            .fieldErrors,
      },
      {
        status: 422,
      },
    );
  }

  const apiOrigin =
    process.env
      .NERDCOMMAND_API_ORIGIN;

  if (!apiOrigin) {
    console.error(
      "NERDCOMMAND_API_ORIGIN is missing",
      {
        requestId,
      },
    );

    return NextResponse.json(
      {
        requestId,
        error:
          "service_unavailable",
      },
      {
        status: 503,
      },
    );
  }

  const response = await fetch(
    `${apiOrigin}/api/v1/public/command-audits`,
    {
      method: "POST",

      headers: {
        "content-type":
          "application/json",
        "x-request-id":
          requestId,
      },

      body: JSON.stringify(
        parsed.data,
      ),

      cache: "no-store",
    },
  );

  const result =
    await response
      .json()
      .catch(() => ({
        error:
          "invalid_api_response",
      }));

  return NextResponse.json(
    {
      requestId,
      ...result,
    },
    {
      status: response.status,
    },
  );
}

Before production, add:

Rate limits.
Bot protection.
Duplicate detection.
Consent-policy version.
Attribution.
Privacy-safe logs.
Failed-submission alerts.
Retry-safe API behavior.
Idempotency key.
A fallback support path.
23. Release Manifest

Every release must generate a machine-readable manifest.

product: nerdcommand-os
version: 0.4.0
channel: internal-alpha
released_at: 2026-07-23T00:00:00Z
source_commit: REPLACE_WITH_COMMIT_SHA

modules:
  organizations: 0.2.0
  identity: 0.2.0
  permissions: 0.2.0
  audit: 0.2.0
  commands: 0.3.0
  product-registry: 0.1.0
  website: 0.4.0

database:
  migrations:
    - 202607230001_initialize_platform
    - 202607230002_add_command_intake

features:
  introduced:
    - command-audit-intake
  promoted:
    - platform-overview
  deprecated: []
  retired: []

artifacts:
  sbom: sbom.spdx.json
  notices: THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.md
  provenance: provenance.intoto.jsonl

upgrade:
  minimum_previous_version: 0.3.0
  downtime_expected: false
  rollback_runbook:
    docs/runbooks/release-0.4.0-rollback.md

known_limitations:
  - Architect output requires human review.
24. Ordered Release Stages
Stage 0 — Governance and Deckbrief Audit

Version: 0.0.1

Objective

Establish technical facts, ownership, repository controls, and the Deckbrief disposition.

Work order
Create the NerdCommand GitHub organization.
Create teams for Platform, Website, DevOps, Security, Product, Design, and Deckbrief.
Create nerdcommand-platform.
Protect main.
Add CODEOWNERS.
Add PR, issue, bug, security, RFC, and ADR templates.
Add secret-handling policy.
Add open-source dependency policy.
Add release policy.
Clone Deckbrief.
Run Deckbrief from a clean environment.
Inventory its code and deployment.
Classify every component:
KEEP.
EXTRACT.
REFACTOR.
REWRITE.
RETIRE.
Approve initial architecture decisions.
Create the first backlog.
Exit gate
No secrets are committed.
Deckbrief audit is approved.
Reference architecture is approved.
Owners are assigned.
Main is protected.
CI requirements are defined.
License risks are recorded.
Stage 1 — Website, Design System, Registry, and CI/CD

Version: 0.1.0-alpha.1

Objective

Launch a truthful, version-driven early NerdCommand.com.

Work order
Bootstrap the monorepo.
Create the website.
Create the design system.
Create the Product Registry.
Add registry visibility tests.
Build the global shell.
Build Home.
Build Platform.
Build Foundry.
Build Deckbrief relationship page.
Build Company.
Build preview/contact intake.
Build docs and release shells.
Connect GitHub Actions.
Connect Vercel Preview.
Connect Vercel Production.
Add telemetry.
Add error monitoring.
Test rollback.
Tag the alpha release.
Exit gate
Every PR receives a Preview URL.
Main deploys to NerdCommand.com.
Planned features cannot appear as available.
Website errors are observable.
The shared design system powers the site.
Release notes are versioned.
Stage 2 — Kernel, Organizations, Identity, Permissions, and Audit

Version: 0.2.0

Objective

Create secure organizational boundaries.

Work order
Build API and worker shells.
Add PostgreSQL and migrations.
Select the identity provider.
Implement organizations.
Implement users.
Implement memberships.
Implement teams.
Implement roles.
Implement permissions.
Add session revocation.
Add organization context.
Add audit events.
Add feature flags.
Add storage contracts.
Add tenant-isolation tests.
Add backup and restore.
Add health checks.
Exit gate
Cross-organization reads fail.
Cross-organization writes fail.
Role changes are audited.
Revoked membership loses access.
Backup restoration is demonstrated.
Stage 3 — Command Operating Core

Version: 0.3.0

Objective

Execute governed business work.

Work order
Implement Command creation.
Implement state transitions.
Implement ownership.
Implement dependencies.
Implement evidence.
Implement priority and due dates.
Implement recurring Commands.
Implement process definitions.
Implement process versions.
Implement process runs.
Implement policies.
Implement controls.
Implement approval requests.
Implement approval decisions.
Implement notifications.
Build My Command Center.
Build manager dashboard.
Add blocked-work reporting.
Add transactional outbox.
Add idempotent event handling.
Exit gate
Signal
→ Process
→ Command
→ Policy
→ Approval
→ Execution
→ Evidence
→ Result

works with a complete audit trail.

Stage 4 — Website Intake, CRM, Consent, and Attribution

Version: 0.4.0

Objective

Turn NerdCommand.com into an operating surface.

Work order
Contacts.
Companies.
Leads.
Consent records.
Attribution.
Duplicate matching.
Command Audit.
Architect intake v1.
Qualification Commands.
Spam controls.
Failure alerts.
Idempotency.
User confirmation.
Source-to-lead reporting.
Exit gate
Visitor
→ Form
→ Validation
→ Consent and attribution
→ Contact/company match
→ Lead
→ Qualification Command
→ Owner notification
→ Confirmation

works end to end.

Stage 5 — Revenue and Customer Delivery

Version: 0.5.0

Objective

Run NerdCommand’s complete lead-to-onboarding process.

Work order
Opportunities.
Qualification scoring.
Command Audit templates.
Business System Blueprint.
Product recommendation.
Proposals.
Pricing policies.
Discount approvals.
Contract integration.
Payment integration.
Subscription and entitlements.
Customer workspace.
Onboarding template.
Projects and milestones.
Customer portal.
Support cases.
Customer health.
Renewal Commands.
Sales and delivery dashboards.
Exit gate
Lead
→ Audit
→ Blueprint
→ Proposal
→ Approval
→ Contract
→ Payment
→ Customer workspace
→ Onboarding

works end to end.

Stage 6 — Deckbrief and Command Brief Engine

Version: 0.6.0

Objective

Convert Deckbrief into a reusable, evidence-based briefing capability.

Work order
Apply the Deckbrief audit decision.
Create metric definitions.
Create metric values and periods.
Create brief templates.
Create required sections.
Capture immutable source snapshots.
Route AI drafting through the AI Gateway interface.
Add evidence references.
Preserve AI drafts.
Preserve human edits.
Add approval.
Add PDF.
Add web output.
Add email output.
Add Markdown and JSON.
Add history.
Add recipients and delivery events.
Convert findings into Commands.
Build an Executive Command Brief.
Build an Investor Update.
Build a Customer Implementation Report.
Exit gate

The same engine creates all three reports from versioned data with human approval.

Stage 7 — AI Gateway and Controlled Agents

Version: 0.7.0

Objective

Make AI permissioned, attributable, measurable, and reversible.

Work order
Provider registry.
Model registry.
Prompt registry.
Agent identities.
Human owners.
Data permissions.
Tool permissions.
Prohibited actions.
Risk classifications.
Cost limits.
Structured-output validation.
Retries and fallbacks.
Evaluation datasets.
Human approval gates.
Run history.
Correction tracking.
Kill switches.
Architect AI private beta.
Exit gate
Every AI action is attributable.
Unauthorized tools are denied.
High-impact actions require approval.
Costs and corrections are measurable.
Stage 8 — Business Genome and Foundry Core

Version: 0.8.0

Objective

Manufacture reproducible products from governed assets.

Work order
Module schema.
Module registry.
Capability graph.
Dependency rules.
Conflict rules.
Product recipes.
Compatibility resolver.
Foundry lockfile.
Repository composer.
Branding configuration.
Documentation generator.
Verification runner.
SBOM generation.
Third-party notices.
Build provenance.
Source package.
License package.
Upgrade plan.
Exit gate

Two different test products reproduce from the same core using different recipes.

Stage 9 — First Vertical Beta

Version: 0.9.0
Product family: Local Service Company OS
First vertical: Residential Cleaning Company OS

Shared modules
Leads.
Estimates.
Scheduling.
Recurring services.
Service areas.
Crews.
Jobs.
Checklists.
Customer notifications.
Evidence.
Payments.
Reviews.
Customer portal.
Operations dashboard.
Cleaning overlay
Property profiles.
Room counts.
Cleaning packages.
Frequencies.
Add-ons.
Supplies.
Access instructions.
Cleaner instructions.
Inspection.
Re-clean.
Recurring plans.
Exit gate

A paid design partner completes:

Lead
→ Estimate
→ Booking
→ Crew assignment
→ Service
→ Evidence
→ Payment
→ Review
→ Recurring service
Stage 10 — General Availability

Version: 1.0.0

Objective

Release a supported product and cloud operation.

Work order
Final customer license.
Cloud provisioning.
Source delivery.
Update manager.
Support process.
Status page.
Service objectives.
Incident response.
Backup recovery.
Upgrade testing.
Security verification.
Trust center.
Final documentation.
Paid onboarding.
Verified case study.
Exit gate

A paying customer can purchase, deploy, operate, update, restore, and receive support.

Stage 11 — Scale

Version: 1.1.0+

Build in this order:

Second Local Service vertical.
Upgrade compatibility improvements.
Partner portal.
White-label controls.
Marketplace governance.
Third-party module review.
Additional product families.
Advanced Architect AI.
Enterprise governance.

Do not open the marketplace until compatibility, licensing, security, support ownership, and customer upgrades are proven.

25. Website Update Procedure for Every Feature
Create an issue or RFC.
Identify the owning module.
Define the customer outcome.
Add the feature to the registry as planned.
Define edition and entitlement.
Implement behind a feature flag.
Add tests.
Add telemetry.
Add user documentation.
Add API and event documentation.
Add screenshots using synthetic data.
Add support notes.
Add a Changeset.
Add a release note.
Deploy a Preview.
Review accessibility, security, performance, and wording.
Promote to private beta, public beta, or GA.
Merge to main.
Publish the release.
Monitor errors, activation, and outcomes.
Create improvement Commands.

The website grows because the Product Registry changes. It must not grow through unsupported marketing claims.

26. Testing Matrix
Test	Required by
Unit	Every business-rule change
Module integration	Every module boundary
API contract	Every endpoint
Event contract	Every event
Migration	Every schema change
Tenant isolation	Every tenant-owned resource
Permission	Every protected operation
End-to-end	Every critical value stream
Accessibility	Every UI release
Security	Every release
Load	Critical workflows before GA
Backup restoration	Every release train
AI evaluation	Every model, prompt, or agent change
Clean installation	Every release candidate
Upgrade	Every supported upgrade path
Rollback or forward fix	Every production release
27. Module Definition of Done

A module is complete only when it has:

Owner.
Manifest.
Purpose.
Contracts.
Migrations.
Organization scoping.
Permissions.
Events.
Policies.
UI states.
Telemetry.
Unit tests.
Integration tests.
Contract tests.
Tenant-isolation tests.
Threat review.
User documentation.
Developer documentation.
Upgrade plan.
Rollback or forward-fix plan.
Changelog.
Version.
Product Registry entry when public.
28. Release Definition of Done

A release requires:

Reproducible build.
Locked dependencies.
Automated test evidence.
Approved migrations.
Tenant verification.
Permission verification.
Secret scan.
Dependency scan.
Security scan.
SBOM.
Third-party notices.
Build provenance.
Health checks.
Logs.
Metrics.
Traces.
Backup evidence.
Restore evidence.
Rollback runbook.
Incident runbook.
User documentation.
Administrator documentation.
Developer documentation.
Support documentation.
Product Registry update.
Website update.
Release notes.
Product approval.
Engineering approval.
Security approval.
Operations approval.
29. Deckbrief Audit

Repository:

git@github.com:chapmancapital1-droid/deckbrief.git
29.1 Initial commands
git clone \
  git@github.com:chapmancapital1-droid/deckbrief.git

cd deckbrief

git status
git log -1 --oneline
git remote -v

find . \
  -maxdepth 2 \
  -type f \
  | sort

Identify the package manager:

ls \
  package-lock.json \
  pnpm-lock.yaml \
  yarn.lock \
  bun.lockb \
  2>/dev/null

Install through the lockfile-supported method:

pnpm install --frozen-lockfile

or:

npm ci

or:

yarn install --immutable

Run every documented check:

pnpm lint
pnpm typecheck
pnpm test
pnpm build
29.2 Review areas

Search for:

Secrets.
Hard-coded credentials.
Direct AI-provider calls.
Hard-coded SaaS metrics.
Authentication shortcuts.
Missing organization filters.
Unversioned prompts.
Untracked PDF templates.
Production URLs.
Copied licensed assets.
Missing migrations.
Disabled tests.
Unhandled background failures.
29.3 Required audit output

Create:

docs/architecture/Deckbrief_Repository_Audit_v1.0.md

For every major component, record:

Component:
Current purpose:
Dependencies:
Data owned:
Security exposure:
Tests:
License and provenance:
Reusability:
Disposition:
Target NerdCommand module:
Migration sequence:
Owner:

Allowed dispositions:

KEEP
EXTRACT
REFACTOR
REWRITE
RETIRE

The guiding rule is:

Keep the Deckbrief product concept unless market evidence rejects it, but do not allow weak existing code to dictate the NerdCommand architecture.

30. Initial Engineering Backlog
NC-001 Ratify naming and architecture.
NC-002 Create GitHub organization and teams.
NC-003 Create nerdcommand-platform.
NC-004 Configure ruleset and CODEOWNERS.
NC-005 Add PR, issue, ADR, and RFC templates.
NC-006 Audit Deckbrief.
NC-007 Approve runtime ADR.
NC-008 Approve database and migration ADR.
NC-009 Approve identity ADR.
NC-010 Approve hosting ADR.
NC-011 Create monorepo.
NC-012 Create Product Registry.
NC-013 Add registry tests.
NC-014 Create design-system tokens.
NC-015 Build website shell.
NC-016 Build Home.
NC-017 Build Platform.
NC-018 Build Foundry.
NC-019 Build Deckbrief relationship page.
NC-020 Add documentation shell.
NC-021 Add release-manifest schema.
NC-022 Configure GitHub Actions.
NC-023 Configure Vercel Preview.
NC-024 Configure Vercel Production.
NC-025 Add telemetry and error monitoring.
NC-026 Add API shell.
NC-027 Add worker shell.
NC-028 Add database and migrations.
NC-029 Add organization contracts.
NC-030 Add permission contracts.
NC-031 Add audit contracts.
NC-032 Add Command contract.
NC-033 Add event envelope.
NC-034 Add local Docker environment.
NC-035 Add backup and restore runbook.
NC-036 Build first preview intake.
31. First Two Sprints
Sprint 1 — Repository and Product Truth

Deliver:

GitHub controls.
Monorepo.
Root tooling.
Product Registry.
Registry tests.
Design tokens.
Website shell.
Home and Platform pages.
CI.
Vercel Preview.
Architecture documents.
Deckbrief audit started.

Demonstrate:

Change a feature from planned to public-beta.
Open the Vercel Preview.
Show the Beta label appearing from registry data.
Revert the change.
Show that an internal-alpha feature cannot appear publicly.
Sprint 2 — Deployment and Platform Contracts

Deliver:

Foundry page.
Deckbrief page.
Documentation and release shell.
Telemetry.
Production deployment.
API health shell.
Local PostgreSQL and Redis.
Organization contract.
Command contract.
Event contract.
Module manifest.
Migration framework.
Backup and restore draft.
Completed Deckbrief audit.

Demonstrate:

Merge a reviewed PR.
Deploy NerdCommand.com.
Display the release version.
Hit the API liveness endpoint.
Run a migration in staging.
Restore a test backup.
Present the Deckbrief disposition.
32. Required Support Documents
README.md
docs/START_HERE.md

docs/architecture/SYSTEM_CONTEXT.md
docs/architecture/MODULE_RULES.md
docs/architecture/DATA_OWNERSHIP.md
docs/architecture/EVENT_CATALOG.md
docs/architecture/PERMISSION_CATALOG.md

docs/security/THREAT_MODEL.md
docs/security/SECRETS.md
docs/security/AI_GOVERNANCE.md

docs/runbooks/LOCAL_SETUP.md
docs/runbooks/DEPLOY_WEBSITE.md
docs/runbooks/ROLLBACK_WEBSITE.md
docs/runbooks/DEPLOY_API.md
docs/runbooks/DATABASE_MIGRATION.md
docs/runbooks/DATABASE_RESTORE.md
docs/runbooks/INCIDENT_RESPONSE.md
docs/runbooks/SECRET_EXPOSURE.md

docs/releases/README.md

docs/product/FEATURE_LIFECYCLE.md
docs/product/PRICING_AND_ENTITLEMENTS.md
33. Final Lead Developer Decision

The plan is ready to build when the team follows the release gates.

The first milestone is not:

Build the entire business operating system.

The first milestone is:

Build a protected, versioned NerdCommand platform repository with a live registry-driven NerdCommand.com website, shared design system, GitHub-to-Vercel delivery, telemetry, documentation, platform contracts, and a completed Deckbrief audit.

Once that foundation is stable, the team moves to:

Organizations
→ Identity
→ Permissions
→ Audit
→ Commands
→ Processes
→ Policies
→ Approvals

That sequence prevents NerdCommand from creating a large catalog of incompatible applications before the company has a software factory capable of maintaining them.